They gave the house a good check to see if everything was in its proper place, and every detail was perfect. The earthquake had left the house in chaos, but they had finally succeeded in cleaning it up.

The artist drew amazing detail in each of the pictures, even capturing the strain and sweat on the football players' faces in the half-time scene. My favourite drawing was of the goalkeeper as he dived to catch the hurtling ball. The artist had drawn his fingertips carefully.

A cloud slowly covered the sun. The world was suddenly drained of detail, all colour gone, everything grey and murky. The wind whistled in the trees, but everything else was silent.

The photograph showed a wide road with trees arching above it. The image was full of detail and depth- the cherry blossoms lining the road had a life of their own.

Toby had broken my pencil yesterday, and as he approached me, it was obvious he would do it again. He looked at me menacingly. Then he reached out his hand, and said "I'm sorry".

The answer to the puzzle was so obvious, I wondered why no-one had spotted it yet. I sat at the back of the classroom and chuckled to myself. Then the teacher called me, and I forgot what I was going to say completely!

To the trained eye of the hunter, it was obvious that there was something hidden in the bushes. She carefully loaded her bow and arrow, and squinted at the countryside. A rabbit leapt out from behind a shrub. She aimed, and fired.

The plume of smoke was rising from the crater. It was obvious that the volcano was active, and we were in danger. I tried to warn my parents, but they weren't listening. The noise of the volcano started to grow louder and louder.

The recipe had been developing for years, and he was confident it would taste brilliant. He added a pinch of salt, and ... he had forgotten the pepper! The dish would certainly be ruined now.

The caterpillar develops into a butterfly through a process known as metamorphosis. The caterpillar spins itself a cocoon, and when it comes out, it has wings. What most people don't know is that the body of the caterpillar is dissolved and rebuilt while it is sleeping in its cocoon!

Geographers use statistics and machines to predict when earthquakes will happen. One useful machine is called a seismograph. It is very sensitive, and starts to shake when an earthquake is detected, even if humans can't feel it.

The atmosphere is so complicated that it is very difficult to predict the weather. We can tell what the weather will look like next week, but no-one knows whether it will rain in a year!

By taking careful measurements, we can predict how long it will take for the cliffs to erode away. It happens so slowly that we can't see it, but over centuries the sea eats away the cliffs, and turns rocks into sand.

The main difference between seawater and river water is that the water in the sea is salty. This is due to the minerals that have dissolved into the water over many years. River water is often safe to drink, whereas seawater will never quench your thirst!

There is one crucial difference between stalactites and stalagmites. Stalactites hang from the ceiling, whereas stalagmites stick up from the ground.

It's sometimes hard to tell the difference between a dormant volcano and an extinct volcano. Some volcanoes that were thought to be extinct have turned out to only be dormant, leading to surprise and destruction when they finally erupt. 
