

#allude

The poet often alludes to the fact that nature is innocent, uncorrupted and beautiful while mankind has allowed it to become ugly, cruel and chaotic.
Three of the groups allude to minor deities in Greek mythology, such as Pan, the goat-like god of shepherds and nature; and Dionysus, the god of wine.
Examination alludes to a notion of judgment day, which is familiar to most English speakers.
The dean of the college alludes to your problems being the result of youthful excess in his letter of recommendation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'contentment'.
"Some commentators have alluded to the existence of vampires in ancient Egypt, though the evidence is sketchy at best."
The term allusion refers to a passing or casual mention of something, such as an idea, a person, a literary work, or another event.
The professor alludes to other interesting information that is available from the records about life in New Zealand.
"If you allude to Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Sonnet 43 ‘A woman's face, so little tells us of the soul within' you will have answered the question correctly."
The book includes a chapter that alludes to the fact that it will soon be dead.
All of the above were allusions to the loss of individuality that must be sacrificed in a relatively controlled society such as those found in 1984.
"I have never met the man," he alludes, "and I know him only by a humble write-up in one of our local newspapers."
The Bible alludes to the existence of other intelligent beings without actually saying they exist.
The example of the quill pen alludes to a different, pre-industrial past.
The poet alludes to the ills of fascism in the second line: "And when the sky clashes in colours of death..."
Professor: While there were many different events that led to the outbreak of the First World War, Germany's plans for European domination and the so-called Schlieffen Plan (which relied on quick victory over France) are widely believed to have been
"The allusion was to the Bible and to John 15:13 in particular, which is spoken by Jesus and which goes: "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
Professor: The Director of the Museum of Modern Art, Una Jackson, has criticised the painting for its cheap and nasty sexual allusions.
Unable to have children herself, she alludes to an unhappy affair that resulted in her pregnancy and miscarriage.
The Thirty Years' War is a 17th-century religious battle frequently referred to by scholars but rarely visited on the page.
He might have alluded to the fact that James, his great rival, had cheated in order to win.
The political groups made no direct accusation of corruption against the government. However, they alluded to it in several of their proposed constitutional amendments.
Professor: The events of World War II allude to a potential danger of totalitarianism.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unacceptable'.
The painting known as "The Scream" is said to allude to the isolation one feels in modern society.
Professor: The idea of a European Union is often used by politicians who allude to the fact that in ancient times, the Romans ruled over a united Europe.
The sixteenth-century writer, Montaigne, alludes to Shakespeare as "M. William Shakspere".
Shakespeare alludes to the sexual nature of the love between Cleopatra and Mark Antony when he describes Cleopatra's desire for Antony as ‘a mantle dropping down from [her] bended knee, ...
In the story, the villagers are alluding to the deaths of several local children.
The geologist alludes to the predicted natural disaster in the immediate future.
"Jesus Christ, the Son of God, came into this world to suffer, to bleed and die for our sins. He was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities;
The attack on the World Trade Centre on September 11th is frequently alluded to in the book
She can't allude to her own weakness for her opponent without making it obvious that she's running a negative campaign.
My professor's comments allude to the possibility that more resources will soon become available.
Professor: Mr. Anonymous, you've asked for sentences containing the words "imply" and "allude". The second one is more difficult because it's less common in everyday speech.
The word "allude"
The American Declaration of Independence contains several allusions to English law and the Magna Carta.
William Shakespeare often alludes to the fact that his home city, London, is a busy and thriving centre of English life in his plays.
The sacking of the city of Rome by the Visigothic King Alaric in 410 A.D.
The remark is an allusion to the Watergate scandal, in which President Bill Clinton's attempt to cover up his affair with an FBI agent led to his impeachment.
Hilary Mantel is widely believed to have alluded to the affair between the previous British Prime Minister (Toby) and his son's wife in her novel ‘Bring up the Bodies'.
Professor: It signals that his mind is wandering, that he has something on his mind.
The Ten Commandments contain the basic rules of social and family behaviour. They were handed down to Moses by God himself, written on stone and a copy was placed in the Ark of the Covenant.
He made several oblique references to the death of his wife but never directly addressed the matter.
The Norman conquest of England in 1066 was a key event in English history, as the kingdom of England became ruled by an invading Norman elite.
The War of the Worlds horrified early 20th-century listen
The title "The Waste Land" alludes to the poem by the ancient Roman poet, Catallus.
The American artist creates paintings that allude to myths and legends of the ancient Greeks.
The change in diet is alluding many scientists as to the reason why females are becoming extinct.
Professor: The uncertainty principle made it clear that the world couldn't be understood through classical Newtonian physics.
Professor: It referred to the tendency of subatomic particles to behave differently when they were being observed.
"The Prime Minister alludes to the fact that she might have to call a general election next year."
The final-year course covered the whole political history of Britain up until the Late Middle Ages for instance, there was a week long lecture on Magna Carta and its implications .
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'epitome'.
The word you are looking for is "thesis".
They allude to the difficulty that the aristocracy faced in controlling the independent-minded citizens in the new urban areas.
The professor stood in front of the class and alluded to the fact that he had prepared a special surprise for the students.
In the second chapter of Jane Eyre, Charlotte Bronte alludes to the fact that Mr. Rochester has a secret.
Mussorgsky alludes to this in his "Promenade" section of the work, when the tone of the music suggests that we are leaving a world of darkness and entering one of light.
In her poem, "The Night Before Christmas," Clement Clarke Moore uses a line about "reindeer flying" to allude to an old Scandinavian myth that humans occasionally rode on the backs of those animals to fly through the sky.
The lecturer said that the man named in the question is an important historical figure, but he didn't allude to who it was.
The Roman Emperor Caligula is popularly known as a cruel and deluded tyrant but no episode in his career has caught the popular imagination more than his attempt to make his horse Incitatus a consul.
Professor: Well, the big clue was my use of the word "flibbertigibbet".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "Gutenberg".
Professor: While the novels allude to his past, what is most significant is their treatment of his relationship with Marc Brandt, a young law student.
"Don't you allude to anything! I want facts!" the angry customer bellowed.
Mr. Thompson alludes to the fact that England is becoming more totalitarian.
Robert Frost's poem "The Road Not Taken"
The Irish fairy mythology has many elements in common with Scottish fairy mythology, but the two are not identical and Irish stories allude to a far greater variety of supernatural groups.
Professor: In yesterday's lecture, I alluded to the fact that all life evolved from a single cell organism. Most biologists believe this to be true despite the fact that we have yet to find a so-called missing link in the fossil record.
The walls of the fort were twelve feet thick, and the only opening was a small door on the upper level,and even then,the doorway was strengthened with iron bars.
Einstein's argument that the concepts of space and time are relative alludes to our common experience.
The study of human evolution is a science and as such it is based on verifiable evidence and testable theories.
'You should have been here last night, we had an impromptu party in the street at four in the morning because a famous popstar was visiting someone at a local recording studio.
Professor:The French writer Voltaire often referred to English institutions such as the monarchy, the Church and Parliament in his writings.
Huckleberry Finn alludes to incidents in Tom Sawyer's life.
Steve Jobs, in his farewell speech to Apple employees, alluded to his forthcoming battle with cancer.
Prime Minister Julia Gillard was alluding to the lengthy and ongoing federal police corruption probe in New South Wales that has engulfed the opposition when she said: ‘Certainly in my lifetime in Australian politics I think we've probably had more than our fair
Professor: First, the concept of class or social status is an abstract notion.
"Cinderella" alludes to the ancient Roman belief that spiders are a bad omen and this is why, in the story, the wicked stepmother is compared to a spider.
The government's announcement yesterday will allude to some of the measures which may be introduced as part of the new health care plan.
The opening sections of "The Great Gatsby", for instance, allude to the Platonic appreciation of beauty and art.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'malfunction'.
Professor: It was a parody of the Fascists and the Nazis who had begun to make alarming noises in Germany alluding to the fact that they would be after Austria and then the rest of Czechoslovakia.
Most of the time, the Japanese allude to a threat rather than stating it openly.
He has a tendency to allude to the fact that his father was once a famous musician without ever going into details.
One can't help but allude to the fact that modern society has many serious problems which need to be addressed.
"Here is my secret," he said alluding to the letter, "I can't reveal it now. But when I do, you will see that it was well worth the trouble."
All internet cafes have been shut down in a bid to stop cyber crime.
In the first version of the letter found by Spinola, William said that he would hold Stadtholderless for his own and expected Nijmegen to do the same.
The main purpose of the speech is to allude to and highlight the main worries or concerns of the audience.
Most people haven't heard of him, but in the 17th century a Frenchman by the name of Blaise Pascal alludes to a "mystery thought" that lies at the heart of our existence.
He did not allude to his having been a pilot in Vietnam.
When politicians allude to a ‘new era of co-operation and trust', we should be wary.
Allusion is a term that means to refer to something indirectly, for example by allusion a writer might mention a current event, rather than mentioning the event directly.
There are several theories about why people consume media. The media alludes to a cause and effect theory, which implies that the consumer is an active participant in the meaning-making process, making choices about what media is consumed and when.
The English Civil War took place between the Royalist orCavaliers and the Republicans orRoundheads, alluding to their hairstyles.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "paradigm".
The theory of evolution in biology is considered the foundation of all modern science, especially when it comes to explaining the diversity of life on Earth.
The Willamette River winds through downtown Portland, Oregon, and is only half blocks away from the school.
Professor: Well, I allude to the fact that you are quite intelligent and always stay at the top of the class.
He just alludes to the fact that the first truly complex political systems emerged in Egypt around 3100 BC.
Anthropologists make extensive use of the writings of early "anthropologists", such as Herodotus, Plato and Aristotle, who made occasional references to the physical characteristics of peoples known to them.


#authentic

You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "influential".
Warming is also caused by the release of other greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide or aerosols into the atmosphere.
However, it is important to humanize while maintaining an aura of authenticity.
Alexander's genius lay in his ability and tendency to unite into larger and larger states areas originally Perceived by their inhabitants as independent communities.
"What part of the Normans' rule wasn't of Scandinavian origin was soon replaced with Norman authentic," he continued.
Ian believes the autotuned song was more "authentic sounding" than an acapella rendition of the song would have been.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "period"
In order to gain access to advanced technology, you decide a doctorate might help and choose the topic of your dissertation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'universality'.
A law is universal when it is valid for all people in all space and time.
The novel is the only work that can be definitely attributed to Caravaggio and is widely accepted as authentic.
The Civil War has been described by many as a war to prevent the spread slavery into new states, but that does not tell the whole story.
I have heard songs in the style of the period but they struck me as somewhat ersatz and less than authentic.
The great thing about the book is that it contains a lot of authentic photographs of Wellesley and the city when they were at their peak.
The works of Shakespeare, although they contain a lot of words and expressions whose meanings have changed over the years, still hold a deeper and more authentic truth than any other writing from his time.
The ancient greek sculpture the Discus Thrower is a highly prized, authentic masterpiece.
The most valuable documents in this historical period are the letters George Washington wrote to his wife during the American War of Independence.
The most important part of the museum's collection is the extensive array of original letters written by historical figures such as Churchill, Fleming and Eisenhower.
Bill Clinton was the first Democratic president in twenty years, and his period of office saw a great increase in civil rights for homosexuals and other persecuted groups.
For some children, school is a place where they feel that they don't belong.
To his later regret, he had written nothing in those years except sentimental love poetry of little authenticity.
Inasmuch as the King James translation of the Bible was "the original" Word of God, it was only authentic.
Choice 124
The problem of disintigrators was that they turned the food they processed into a gray, unpalatable paste lacking nearly all nutrients except those for simple plant organisms.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'equipment'.
It seems as if those supporting the movement felt that their choice was the only authentic statement against the sociopolitical norm.
The doctrine of papal infallibility was only made official after a thorough revision of canon law, the first time this had been done since the ninth century.
The difference between the attitudes of the British to taxation without representation in America and their apathy towards taxation with representation in Britain is a mystery: the principle being protested against was the same in both cases and the taxes affected everyone, rich and poor
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'considered'.
The archeologists dug up an authentic 14th-century dwelling that was surprisingly preserved under blue clay.
The Watergate Scandal was an authentic scandal that involved the highest levels of executive authority in the United States. College students were among the many enthusiastic journalists that tried to collect evidence from the crime scenes.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'deterioration'.
But a new circle of twelve artist began to form around Van Gogh, who were more impressed by his authentic depiction of working class life than those in Brussels and these new artists encouraged Van Gogh to paint for himself rather than to try and impress
The authenticity of the letter is questioned by many medievalists.
In fact, it is the sort of topic that often comes up with tourists and, therefore, is a matter of significant concern to those whose job it is to make the town appear as attractive as possible to visitors.
Cinema has undergone a technological revolution in the last thirty years. However, the so-called "independent" or art house cinema was still largely lacking in authenticity; film-makers had to compromise with the materiality of the film.
Music was an important part of everyday life in the town, particularly the church music and folk songs; these were strongly influenced by the migration from villages to towns and so had acquired something of an urban and "authentic" flavour.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'consequently'.
Like all religions, Islam is based on a book, in this case the Quran, which followers believe to be authentic.
In the postmodernist's world there are no objective facts: only interpretations of events and symbols that lack any authentic meaning.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'defense'.
The speech sounds very contrived and not in keeping with the rest of the history of the period. It sounds fake or 'inauthentic'.
German police used water cannons to force animal rights activists from a "Save the Whale" protest in the middle of Berlin's busy Ku'damm shopping district.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vulnerability'.
The most popular paintings by Van Gogh are considered by many experts to be the most authentic
Your version of Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata is authentic, but the one owned by the music library is a forgery.
The only known authentic image of Loyola is an oil painting done by Samson Valentin.
Gothic architecture instead had a much more authentic medieval flavor, with real buttresses and arches rather than wooden supports.
The definition of the word "modern" in the industrial revolution, is a common misconception.
The only known authentic writing by Martin Luther, the Protestant reformer, is a letter he wrote to Pope Leo X in 1520 begging him to reconsider his stance on indulgences.
In fact, many paintings by Vermeer and his contemporaries are considered to be more "modern" and "authentic", if only because they appear less staged.
The struggle for authentic acceptance of self and others, especially within the context of a therapeutic relationship, is a common internal conflict addressed by therapists in training.
Of the record, 1606 is the only one that has been found to be an authentic Dylan creation, rather than a cover of an older blues song.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'resistance'.
The same is true of certain types of art music today, which although influenced by popular music and culture are more authentic in the traditional sense than popular music.
The most important critic of the novel was William Makepeace Thackeray, who wrote a review of "Jane Eyre" in which he claimed that some of the characters were unnatural and the 'Low-Dutch' passages sounded inauthentic.
However, the arts played a large role in communicating ideas about nationality to the general population.
The forgeries were so expertly done that Nelson's 'authentic' signature looked better than the ones he signed.
It's no good faking it, you need to play with emotional authenticity.
Despite the fact that it has only been around 50 years, rock and roll is already an important part of our culture, with an enormous number of musical greats and described by critics as the most authentic expression of youth angst in music.
The two masks are both genuine sixteenth-century Flemish lace.
For the first time, I really felt like I was part of the march and the strike -- an authentic expression of student feeling.
The bones were authentic Neanderthal.
1: In the eighteenth century, an "authentic" portrait of a historic figure would be painted or sculpted with the actual sitter in front of the artist.
The Rembrandt self-portrait s your father hung in his office when he worked as a professor at the local university.
They played pieces of authentic 16th century Mexican music.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "supplanted".
The ancient religions of the Norse people were later supplanted by Christianity.
We were looking for the real Jane or John Doe, not some celebrity wannabe.
The Blue Flower is a 1915 painting by Vincent van Gogh. Many consider it to be one of his most successful colors or ones that are painted using light technique.
The big band sound that had been popular in the 1930s and '40s went out of fashion by the mid-'50s, but it became popular again in the early '90s, when a lot of bands started
Professor: (Pronounced "Ah-oo-tehn-ick") adjective 1. genuine; not fake, imitation or counterfeit
In his speech, the historian urged society to return to its authentic values, which he said were ones of harmony and understanding.
"For most of them, the danger of being blown up or shooting a friend in the heat of battle seemed a small price to pay for what they saw as the chance of bringing down an oppressive regime and creating a new and authentic Vietnam. "
The first records of written Langobardic law are the "Consultatio," or "legal advice," written in 568 by two Roman lawyers and the authentic laws itself.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "characterisation".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'profitability'.
He's a fake, although he thinks his writing is completely authentic Shakespearean prose.
"Right, the only authentic Puabi reproduction available,"
In this respect, the authenticity of the picture is irrelevant.
His writings are no longer thought to contain the authentic ideas of Plato. In fact, they serve as a powerful example of Platonic skepticism.
The only known original document from the ancient Egyptians is the inscription on the inside of the Pyramid of Unas, and it is considered by some to be too important to be moved from its place.
The death of Martin Luther King in 1968 is taken by many to mark the end of the period of civil rights activism in the U.S, which is sometimes known as the "Black authentic" movement.
For some people, eating organic food has become a kind of search for health and authenticity.
Such was the success of the War on Drugs that over six billion people can now get high whenever they want, yet Drugs are regarded as 'bad' and anyone who takes them is still a 'loser' and seen as such by society.
However, other historians are more critical and point out that the very idea of a single 'original' container or 'ur-text' is somewhat contradictory to the nature of the movement itself, which sought to return to the "authentic"
Of course, other language scholars think that his work has little to do with the original Indo-European language or its descendants.
You: Now let's focus on your own writing. Look at the sentences you wrote for me on your course application. How would you rate these on a scale of "not at all original" to "completely original"? What do you think?
The book offers guides to the authentic pronunciation of French, German, Spanish, and Italian.
The older manuscripts, written on parchment and preserved under conditions less likely to damage the text than papyrus, are usually considered more authentic.
It was the worlds first authentic attempt to deliberately sink redundant obsolete warships.
"With all these facts in mind, it's no wonder that the world doesn't trust the evidence provided by terrorists. The fact remains that terrorist demands are always authentic."
That building has always been considered an example of High Renaissance architecture, and so its status as an authentic Michelangelo has never been seriously questioned.
Paleolithic, or "Old Stone Age", humans were anatomically identical to modern human beings in almost every way.
It's all right if you don't agree with him, so long as your arguments are authentic and sincerely held.
The Celtic cross is a traditional form of cross with a long history, but it is also referred to as the "Celtic cross" since its circle and the designs at the end of its arms are all traditional Celtic patterns.
Despite its rather reactionary politics, the fact that it was a government-run museum made the National Museum of Anthropology in Mexico City an important centre for the study of pre-Columbian American culture and the only place in Mexico where the work of preserving
The only authentic portrait of William Shakespeare was painted in 1608 and it is located in the National Portrait Gallery in London.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'appease'.
The discovery of the Rosetta Stone in the early nineteenth century enabled scholars to begin to translate and understand ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs for the first time with more ease.
But for the most part, these populations lived in such geographically separated regions that there was little interbreeding and hence they remained genetically relatively pure and without significant external influence or dilution, so that today they are still considered to be authentic examples of early
The idea that every work of art has a single and definitive meaning, an "authentic" interpretation, is a nineteenth-century concept developed by critics.


#autonomy

However, the region was only granted autonomy within the borders of the USSR
The trend was towards greater autonomy of the individual and the nation state, rather than an increase in reliance on large states.
None of the factory workers would argue that their working conditions were like those for the computer professionals and managers with their relatively good salaries and their fancy office space complete with benefits such as medical insurance and retirement funds.
The former Yugoslavian state of Bosnia-Herzegovina has undergone a great increase in religious autonomy in the past twenty years.
Even the strongest of the First Men could not harm this cloudwyrm, for while he possessed autonomy and strength in vast quantities, he was still no match for the creature's age and experience.
In the 1860s, the goal of the early feminists was to win for women "autonomy" through such measures as marriage contract reform, divorce law reform, and access to higher education.
The question of whether or not computers and robots will ever have autonomy, the ability t
Professor: The most important conclusion to be drawn from the meeting is that the government has effectively abandoned all hope of ever regaining control of the station.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word ‘reinforce'.
The American worker won the struggle for greater control over his working conditions first through the trades and later through industrial unions.
In this case, it meant that the American colonies had a certain autonomy and were able to vote in the Parliament under certain circumstances.
In any case, it took nearly a century for the various European settlements in the New World to gain real autonomy and even then they were still under the thumb of their national governments which did not have as far to send penal and military forces to put
In the eighteenth century, many philosophers argued that the individual's freedom, or autonomy, was of primary importance.
The territory was granted limited autonomy in exchange for joining the empire.
The government first imposed restrictions on the bank in order to protect its art collection during World War I. The loss of autonomy made the bank's directors unhappy.
Nurse Ratched's demand that the patients show their autographs if they want extra cigarettes is a sign of her desperation to hang on to whatever scraps of autonomy the patients still have.
After the American revolution, the former British colony wanted to ensure that bills of rights such as the one in its constitution would not be violated, so it adopted a policy of autonomy.
The Incas were conquered not only because they had a lack of immunity to diseases the Spanish brought, but also because they lacked any sort of autonomy in decision-making.
In 1871 the Prussians invaded France, capturing the capital Paris after several months. The war ended with a German victory and France's forced capitulation, leading to an increase in German power and influence in Europe.
The breakaway province, the Eastern River Republic, demanded autonomy from the Western Coalition Government.
Although, West Germany is the best example of a nation that has recently enjoyed the resurgence of such freedoms after a period of having them taken away in the past.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conquest'.
Autonomous cars could make roads a lot safer, because they would drive more cautiously and fewer people would die in road accidents.
On the one hand, the governing body might increase the number of students in order to make more profit; on the other hand, increasing the student body would decrease the level of intimacy and personal attention that each student has with professors.
After the king was gone, the local lords gained more autonomy and power.
The leaders of the Front called for an independent constitution granting autonomy to Serbia.
The Catholic Church's insistence on preserving its autonomy despite considerable political pressure resulted in King Henry VIII establishing the Church of England in 1534 and forcing clergymen to choose between disowning the Pope or risking execution.
Autonomy is the freedom from external control and regulation especially in personal and social matters.
During World War I, the American continent experienced the Great Migration of African-Americans searching for greater autonomy.
The education system serves as a good example of the interdependence of the parts and the whole.
We believe that these provisions will satisfy both governments and the people in their struggle for greater autonomy.
The rise of the universities and the growth of an educated middle class demanded more schools at a time when the government struggled to assert its authority over rebellious Scots; the result was an emphasis on local participation in education.
Those who dismiss the idea that cars must be part of a healthy childhood argue that autonomy is not something to be avoided but rather cultivated in children.
The Jewish leading foreign banker of the Pontifical States at this period was Pigello, the Cardinal Patriarch of Jerusalem, whose two younger brothers Bernardino and Giovanni were also active in the banking business.
This term described the relationship between a colony and the country that controlled it.
The constitution gave people living in the territory of the USSR more rights than citizens of totalitarian states, and also gave them more rights than those living in other autocracies.
Demands for autonomy by local military leaders lead to the breakdown of the central government and the empire soon collapsed.
The World Trade Organization is an international organization set up primarily to facilitate international trade.
However, many parts of the army still want to maintain central control over the lands they conquer.
The inhabitants of the new colony had only limited autonomy compared with other English citizens.
The city states of ancient Greece, such as Athens and Sparta, are often given credit for the development of Western ideas of autonomy, individual rights, and the rule of law.
Some religious traditions teach that as individuals gain more spiritual 'light', they eventually achieve a state of 'enlightenment' or 'awakening' and gain complete autonomy and self-sufficiency from deity.
They demanded autonomy - the right to govern themselves and not be a puppet state controlled by another country.
The town council refused to grant them autonomy because they feared that other villages would then also demand it.
The government's loss of control over the colonies up to the point where the colonists declared autonomy was obviously a factor.
Before the mid-19th century, women were rarely acknowledged as autonomous individuals in any meaningful way.
The United States has a strong federal government but a relatively weak central government, which exists primarily to maintain the autonomy of its constituent states.
Catalonia has long held a strong sense of autonomy, and its own language and culture.
The Iraqi government agreed to grant the Kurds autonomy in the 1970s but later reneged on that agreement.
After the movie I suggested to my girlfriend that we both needed a drink, but she said she would drive so why didn't I just meet her at the bar in the hotel where the party was going to be held.
For my sister and me, our father's love and his teaching had prepared the way for this moment of autonomy.
Ideally, the theoretical and applied researches of a university should be closely linked, if not integrated.
The students were demanding more say in the school's affairs which would come into effect once they gained independence from their parents.
However, while telling these countries that they could have increased political autonomy, they continued to have a trade relationship through the British.
The settlers are interested in gaining independence, as this would allow the establishment of a merchant marine and autonomous control of foreign policy.
The government responded by granting more autonomy to many northern colonies.
Having completed a series of calculations, Hess sets the fuel mixture so that the engines will explode at exactly the point in space where he wants them to for his own purposes.
The legal system of Japan, in the 18th century, was created to strengthen the power of the shogun. Judges were appointed by him, and their job was to implement his rules.
The independent nation states of Europe still put pressure on the Ottoman empire to grant its various nationalities more autonomy.
There was a long battle throughout the twentieth century over the granting of autonomy to the individual American states.
The state of Massachusetts then hired him to write a new constitution, but he died soon after finishing it. He never saw the new government get up and running, but the groundwork for it was there, and it became reality.
Some, such as the Incas and Mayans, developed advanced systems of writing, science and mathematics, yet stories of incest, brutality and vicious autocracies pervade their history.
Life in the early Soviet Union included universal literacy, planned economy, social welfare, freedom of expression and science.
The independence of East Pakistan is not only demanded by Bengal, but by all of Pakistan's provinces.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the phrase "based on".
After the war, the United States demanded that Spain grant autonomy to its Caribbean possessions.
The right to education on this issue has come to be known as the right to reproductive autonomy.
However, the Scottish Enlightenment is important because it gave rise to a flowering of Scottish literature and philosophy when scholars greatly increased their interest in human behavior and developed ideas of autonomy.
western Europeans have traditionally valued individual autonomy, and are uncomfortable with rigid class hierarchies.
A state or country in which the people rule themselves with virtually no intervention by a higher authority.
The provinces of the Netherlands have for long had substantial autonomy, and are not part of the kingdom.
Most of them didn't care about their patients' autonomy, and would constantly force visitors to give blood even if the patient had said no.
The newly born United States of America was still grappling for its own autonomy.
Some tribes in Eastern Europe retained a limited autonomy for many centuries, but were largely self-governing and independent of Imperial control.
Many of the post-colonial countries have been plagued with continuous internal strife which has prevented them from developing autonomy and co-operation among themselves.
It is often argued that a lack of autonomy lies behind many choices of adolescents.
The initial American Colonies were organized under a relatively autonomous set of colonies.
The normal schools mainly provided teachers with skills needed to perform their jobs, such as teaching reading and writing to children, but the state universities began to extend their courses to include subjects such as engineering, chemistry and ancient history.
At the opposite spectrum of thought is the idea that man is autonomous being, and does not need to be answerable or subservient to any external force whether it is government, a church or even God.
In the eighteenth century, a conflict between Britain and its Thirteen Colonies in North America led to the start of the American Revolution in 1775.
The military government has promised to grant Croatia autonomy if the ethnic strife continues.
Although the other part of the double-standard refers to the choice of female's dress code, which tends to emphasize their sexual attractiveness, it also implies the right for female to exercise her own right of choice and autonomy.
Thomas believed that the universities of his day should be places where students learned through Critical Thinking rather than through rote memorisation.
However, an autonomous car that could drive at any time without reference to a driver would not be free to break the speed limit.
Looking after children is a part of life, and like all other parts of life, it needs to be organized in such a way that it reinforces our beliefs and outlooks—what social scientists call "autonomy."
The war of American Independence was fought to secure American autonomy,
In 1871, the central government of Spain did not have very much autonomy.
The First World War was one of the most violent events in human history.
Downing also fought strongly to gain greater autonomy for the new colony.
The independent churches separated from the Church of England and enjoyed a brief period of autonomy under the protection of Oliver Cromwell.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inevitably'.
In 1913, the Native Americans were granted citizenship as part of the American plan to contribute to World War I, thus, increasing the number of potential troops and gaining more support from native people.
However, from 1871 to 1918, while still nominally part of a central government, the separate German states had more autonomy than they had ever had before.
Citizens fought for and won autonomy from their Spanish rulers, but they had many more battles to fight among themselves.
Nation-states such as the US and Australia had to decide whether to grant their large Asian population one or more regions of autonomy.
The city-state of Ragusa was granted a large degree of autonomy in response to demands by the local Ragusan aristocracy.
Some economists argue that the only solution is to reinforce the powers of individual states in relation to the central government.
The city-state, the highest expression of the nation-state, was liberated from outside interference when it was granted constitutional autonomy throughout the nineteenth century.
The American government gave the Native Americans their own governments, or autonomy, on their reservations.
Wayne gives you a sentence containing the word "homework".


#attribute

The economists couldn't agree about the reasons for the ongoing depression, each of their theories attributing the cause to a different factor.
"We acknowledge the importance of continuing to strengthen our relationship with the university," said John Smith, dean of the College of Fine Arts. "Both institutions share many attributes."
The main cause of these hostilities was the fact that all the countries involved felt that national pride, or patriotism, was a prime attribute of their societies.
The basic communist economic theory, known as the labor theory of value, holds that all value is derived from labor.
You have to admit that you don't know as much about the writer's life as you thought.
Many scientists now believe that the major reason for violence among humans is our tendency to attribute a person's actions to his or her character rather than to the circumstances in which an action takes place.
A number of writers have suggested that the explanation for the English Revolution lies in the fact that James II was a Catholic.
"He is courageous, selfless, and always contributes towards the greater good of the team. These are all attributes of a true leader."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'architect'.
Indeed, the ability to create useful new knowledge is currently the most important
One of the most common historical views of the French Revolution is that it was a battle of the Enlightenment ideas against the tyranny and oppression of the nobility.
The main factor that contributes to this view is that many scholars see the Reformation as an historical event of crucial importance.
The main reason for the rise of conservatism in the post-war era was its successful conjuring up an atmosphere of threat and fear in the population, which caused the numb to vote for right wing politicians who promised to deal with the threat and fear
1. The quality of being the reason something happens
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "enlightenment".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'alleged'.
The main attributes of the empire were its huge army, extended trade routes and building of lasting capital cities
The major challenge in forming a new religion after the collapse of the ancient world was attributing the destruction to a force people could still identify and yet one that wouldn't be so frightening that it would paralyze them with fear.
The second-most-important element in the widespread adoption of a new technology by an organization is the organization's culture, which includes its management style
"It is impossible to understand the medieval world without understanding how medieval people understood themselves in relation to God," writes historian Jeffrey Burton Russell.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'archetype'.
He acts as a moral archetype in the story as he tries to do good even if it may result in him paying a high price.
The glory of the Renaissance was the inspiration for many great paintings of religious subjects, as artists like Michelangelo Buonarroti and Leonardo da Vinci sought to express an new found sense of spirituality and faith in their art.
The reason why many of the laws disfavoring employment of children were initiated was due to the assumption that all people under the age of fourteen were simply incapable of productive work.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'determine'.
As well as being a gifted logician, Descartes was also an accomplished engineer; indeed in his lifetime he was more celebrated for his engineering skills than for his philosophy.
However, it is important to note that all of these health issues can be at least partially attributed to the person's living environment.
Technically the Middle Ages lasted for around eight centuries, but typically the term is used to refer to European history between the fall of the Roman Empire and the Renaissance.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'genuinely'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "justification".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elaboration'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Refute'.
"See also" 'Disprove'
The description "civilised" applies to a nation which has, to a large extent, regularized procedures, such as
However, the main problem for the defense is to establish which of the defendant's personality traits can be attributed to his natural shyness and reserve, and which are the result of his schizophrenia.
However, physical and genetic attributes are different from personality or learned behavior, which are studied in psychology rather than biology.
The period between the reign of Charles II and that of his nephew Charles XI is often considered the golden age of Swedish history; it was a time of relative peace in which arts and sciences flourished.
One possible explanation for the use of the head is as a 'shield' on the front, or top, of the body.
He pointed to changes in the way people dressed as an example of how they might change their clothing with the times, adding that the influence of social media sites such as Facebook was another major factor in changing how people presented themselves.
Some of the speakers here today, however, are not content to just address the implied issues.
The rise of the modern factory system in the early 18th century could be partly attributed to the exploitation of the poor and unskilled workers, which caused wage levels to diminish.
The most obvious of the three 'classical' theories of why people behave the way they do as put forward by Freud would be his theory of attributing certain personality traits and characteristics to the individuals themselves.
The law of diminishing returns states that beyond a certain point, increasing investment in any factor of production (such as labour and capital) will not increase the amount of output.
The first is the tendency for a rapid rise in the standard of living among the working classes, for a while at least. The second is the large amounts of leisure time enjoyed by many workers in prosperous societies.
The explanation that is most frequently advanced to explain the startling genetic similarities is that all humans have a common African ancestor.
The Attic Greek attributive nouns are unlike their non-Attic predecessors in that they have an inherent vowel.
One can argue that accidents may have been the driving force behind some of the most important inventions in history.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "versatility".
Because of the trend towards industrialisation, many Europeans began to see workers as lacking in the moral attributes that were necessary for them to be part of good government.
One of its most important attributes is probably its ability to focus attention on the future.
Without clearly defined borders, the German people were united by a single language and culture, which attributed to their drive and success as a nation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "wars".
However, industrialisation has many negative attributes and it is a problem for governments to control all the factors.
The location of the island, which attributed to its lack of large navigable rivers, resulted in the growth of communication networks based on the sea rather than rivers.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modern".
The use of horses to scare away seals at the breathing holes was an excellent example of the Inuit's thorough knowledge of the natural world.
There are a wide range of factors that can attribute to male infertility.
The main reason why people chose to return is that the memories of their lives in the idyllic Village weren't as glamorous and desirable after experiencing "reality".
The two main causes of the First World War are generally seen to be the Bosnian Crisis and the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "pathology".
The success of the London Symphonic Orchestra depends as much on the constant improvement of musicianship in our symphony orchestra and our conservatory as it does on the quality of our music directors.
When we humans look at nature, we tend to see patterns and structures, and are inclined to attribute these not to the inherent properties of natural objects but to the work of a creator.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reforms'.
The most important attributes of a politician are courage and leadership.
Other attributes of governments include if they are totalitarian (Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany) or authoritive (Scapegoat), have a bicameral legislature (US Federal Government), or a unicameral legislature (Most governments in the
In several parts of England, the role of women in society changed very little. In other parts, for instance Wales, it changed relatively more.
The disappearance of the Native American Indians from the continent is usually attributed to a combination of factors, such as disease, probably introduced by Columbus and his successors, wars with European settlers and the loss of hunting grounds.
The ideology of fascism was mainly an "anti-ideology", meaning it involved a lot of criticism against rival political ideologies but no specific doctrine about what form of government and economy should replace them.
The mayor of Kraków has suggested that a multi-purpose arena be built on the site once occupied by the market in the medieval district of Kazimierz, the first part of Kraków to be settled.
There are three major explanations that scientists have put forward to attribute the extinction of the dinosaurs.
Some of the things we take for granted in our lives, such as democracy and freedom of the press, are the result of a long process which involved many people and events.
In fact, the rate of extinction is now so high that scientists fear that it might signal the disappearance of half of all mammal species on earth within the next century.
The second decade of the twenty-first century has been an era of global instability; military, terrorist and separatist conflicts have multiplied.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'civilization'.
Due to the nature of the stimulus-response experiments, behaviorists believe that all human actions are caused or "controlled" by external forces such as rewards and punishments.
The author attributes the victory to the way in which the I.R.A. put down their guns and used a mixture of peaceful protests - such as strike - as well as violent attacks against the British soldiers.
One major problem with the Marxist theory of history is its assumption that workers' increasing hardship is due to capitalists becoming richer and richer.
In the opening months of the war, the reasons behind Germany's declaration of war on Russia were debated vigorously in the newspapers as well as in parliament.
The two main influences that will shape the new century are globalization and computerization.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "support".
One of the big advantages of the parliamentary system, however, is its flexible nature, which allows for rapid changes of policy and even the institution of new institutions, as in Great Britain's case.
In 1666, writers of the day attributed these events to "the pestilential assault of an ignivomous (able to burn) and poisonous gas (vapour)".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "spirituality".
The main cause of the Second World War is still disputed, but most historians now accept that the main attribute was Germany's desire for Lebensraum, or 'living space'.
The main intellectual and artistic traditions of the ancient world are all widely believed to have their origin in ancient Mesopotamia.
The rest of the team attributed his success to the fact that he had a strong work ethic.
All rights reserved.
We cannot, of course, be sure of the attributes needed to be truly creative since most "creative" people do not become famous.
Some historians have recently begun to challenge the long-held views of Ford as an uncaring, profit-hungry employer who treated his workers with contempt.
The main reason why there are always riots after football championships is the growing under-class anger at the rich elite who make the decisions about what is best for the country.
The seventeenth century, during which period most of the great classical theories of the state were developed, also saw the development of the modern ideas of democracy.
Before computers, space travel and the information age humans were far less intelligent than they are today.
The Church of England's
It even suggests that these invisible walls can even be attributed to quantum theory as they sometimes manifest as singularities or "holes" in space.
'That's a nice painting', I said, trying to make the best of things and attributing my embarrassment to my overactive imagination.
The First World War led to a whole rethinking of strategy and a great improvement in weapons that we now usually attribute to technology.
While some of the events leading up to World War I are still subject to political and military dispute, most historians agree that its origins can be attributed to the complex system of alliances between European powers.
After five hours of study in the library, you're finally ready to head home. Hopefully, you're a little more prepared for your first class tomorrow morning!
The main reason why a professional police force does not exist in Utopia is that crime is seen as an attribute of the corrupt society that exists within the world of Perfection.
Some scientists have been tempted to attribute these patterns to the influence of planets or other heavenly bodies, such as the sun and moon.
However, it is a historical fact that the Scots did play a significant role in the making of America.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "vulnerable".


#bias

Most people, from tribal warriors to modern-day undergraduates, are biased about issues that they have a strong feeling about, such as their religious or political beliefs.
The trouble with many experts' views on the subject, is that they suffer from confirmation bias, the tendency of a person to favor information that reinforces their current beliefs.
Recent evidence indicates that the large macroeconomic numbers demonstrate the existence of bias in the reporting.
The Second World War was a traumatic period in the life of the British people.
This possibility isbiased by the fact that through most of this century our knowledge of past climate change has been based on information obtained from fossils and ice cores.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inference'.
First meaning: Unconsciously being partial or favoring one person or group over another, often without realizing it.
Another modernist, the famous English author Virginia Woolf (1882-1941), was acutely aware of the danger of letting one's own personal bias dictate one's perspective on a situation
The main criticism against the study, as a case of observer bias, is that the researchers who discovered the patterns in the boxers' behavior were unable to test whether similar patterns occurred in the ring.
However, all the authors agree that the most serious problem is the use of personal and social biases in obtaining research results.
Most forms of information bias the messenger as well as the message.
These experiments also have the disadvantage of being extremely biased in favor of the researchers themselves.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "fiercely".
The cod break was caused by a shift in the North Atlantic Drift, which is partly driven by temperature differences between the equator and the poles.
In the news media, bias is generally acknowledged to be undesirable, and is expected to be balanced as a whole by other biases.
Your implication that those of us who oppose the new policy are all alike is not only inaccurate but shows a clear bias on your part.
A further sledge hammer blow for genetics came from the realization that most of the human genome has no relevance to our own, clearly indicating flaws in the test.
He says, "The media are clearly biased in favour of the government," a claim which is hard to disagree with.
The Age of Imperialism was also a time of strong nationalist feelings, which often led to biased opinions of other cultures.
An employment practice that is unfair to a person or group based on their race, religion, or gender is known as a/an _______________.
The media's attitude in wartime is usually to support the war, thus creating a period of heightened nationalistic bias.
The main bias of the experiment is that it doesn't control for all possible variables.
In both cases, the tests would be biased in favor of the little-known applicant from Tasmania
The danger, he felt, was a future in which some humans - especially those with bias or psychological problems - might try to change themselves to such an extent that they would thenceforth be unchangeable.
Your knowledge on this subject is extensive and you are now familiar with all the elements of the topic of your choice, and can converse on it with skill far beyond those of your classmates.
Bias is a mental inclination that heavily influences judgment and makes people unwilling to consider situations impartially.
The use of human growth hormones has been criticized, not only because of possible dangerous side effects for the athletes, but also due to medical ethics and the possibility of increasing the risk for heart disease, which is what many experts argue will happen due to
The problem with secondary sources is that they can introduce a lot of bias into a discussion.
The work of the journalists exhibited strong liberal bias.
One of the most common approaches to skull-measurement is called the "cephalic index," which divides the width of a skull by its length and ascribes a number value to its "roundness."
However, bias remains because although there are many more women studying science at school and university now than there were 50 years ago, the numbers are still disproportionate.
The most obvious bias in this case is age; the oldest people in your sample are former students of yours.
The advance in technology has been paralleled by the growth of propaganda.
The common media portrayal of computer hackers as organized by television shows such as "Hackers" and films such as "War Game" has created a bias in the general public that hackers are young, male and inclined towards criminal behavior.
Bias means showing favor towards a particular person, group or institution, and discrimination is when a person's actions are influenced by their preconceptions or prejudices.
Our news is slanted toward what sells, and controversy and scandal sell a lot better than sober analysis.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conservative'.
Academics have been criticized for their unconscious bias towards their pupils.
Many people thought that the news reports were biased because they gave more airtime to refugees in Turkey than to those in Iraq.
For example, a common criticism of the media is that it has a liberal bias.
Unfortunately, human nature is such that a study which disproves a favorite theory of a leading academic can and usually will result in precisely the kind of ugly reaction you fear from your teacher.
The motion picture "Reds" presents a largely biased account of the life of the radical American journalist, John Reed.
History is written by the victors, meaning that it is inherently biased towards winners.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'variable'.
The trouble with your proposed solution is the risk of bias, as the AI will be inclined to provide information that leads to increasing corporate profits at the expense of more general benefits to society.
Although none of the studies into race and IQ were scientifically good enough to prove anything beyond doubt, their findings gave support to the common prejudices that many people held.
The interpretation of history is always biased, by the nature of the historian's work.
Bias means a tendency to believe that which is convenient to oneself or one's own unit and to disbelieve that which is contrary, and people with such a tendency are also called biased.
Those with a religious upbringing may strongly believe in a deity, but there is no evidence of this entity's existence except for a few ambiguous and scientifically unreliable claims that are open to wide interpretation and bias.
The two types of historical evidence that are most often criticized are bias and selection.
The reporters had always believed the general to be honest, but there had always been a bias because he frequently gave them good leads.
The media and the education system have both been accused of bias against companies that operate in the red-light districts.
The results must be viewed with some degree of bias as the professors, who were all American, all tended to omit European information which did not support their claims.
The two major studies that I mentioned last class, the one by John Philippe Rushton and the other by Richard Lynn, have both come under fire for alleged scientific flaws as well final conclusions biased towards racism.
Evaluations of historical events suffer from certain shortcomings: "Every age and every nation looks upon its own past with a jaundiced eye, and contains in itself some principle of decay and flaws which it readily discovers."
Wikipedia is one of the world's most popular websites and its entries are often written by enthusiasts and experts in the field, which may give it a degree of objectivity and neutrality unattainable in other reference works, but some publishers have criticized the
It's important to understand the nature of personal and historical interpretations so that we may recognize the bias in our sources and compensate for them when necessary.
The most obvious sign of religious bias in the story is that the wrong word, "messias", is used to refer to Jesus.
Judging by the protests in the streets at the moment, and the huge sums of money being poured into it, the impending war is beginning to look worryingly like an attempt by one particular ideological group to impose its views, values, and ideas
The former prime minister's blatant anti-Tory bias makes him unacceptable as chairman of the inquiry.
The biggest problem with Plutarch's political bias is that he often mentions rulers in his writings, but we're never quite sure if he thinks they're good or bad.
The host projects the confidence of someone who doesn't have a hint of bias toward anyone.
As in many areas of science, medical research is not free of bias and error.
Everyone has a bias. Whether it be tenacious or fragile, its existence is universal.
Professor: In 1962 the International Commission of Jurists unsuccessfully tried to persuade South Africa to release Mandela, at that stage a little known figure, from prison.
The most significant historical criticism of newspapers is a tendency to take a particular angle on a story and slant the reporting, sometimes for reasons of bias.
One's personal convictions or prejudices; predilections: His religious ideology has always been a matter of bias with him.
In many cases, our judgment is clouded by our thoughts.
Newspapers are influenced by a tendency toward sensationalism, random support of particular political parties, and bias against certain groups of people.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cause'.
Students who claim that their professor is biased against them should be extremely cautious, particularly if their grades are high.
"People with serious preexisting medical or psychiatric conditions are not allowed to join the army," he says, as if that settles the matter as far as bias is concerned.
The judge's impartiality is in question, due to the fact that he owned shares in the defendant's company.
The media is biased towards violence and scandal in a way that the general public isn't.
Cognitive bias is the tendency of people to allow their perceptions to be influenced by their preexisting beliefs or wishes.
The other conflict, the so-called War of the Roses, was between two branches of the royal family.
'When I got to the end of the paper, I discovered that the last two pages were missing.
By ignoring the existence of such biases, the defense was able to create reasonable doubt in the mind of the jury, who acquitted.
The conservative American news channel was criticized for its bias towards the senator's opponent in the upcoming presidential election.
But it was your own prejudices that you had towards homosexuals that ultimately stopped you from saving Frank's life, because if you had been able to get over them, "you"
A. All the men at the meeting had strong political beliefs and were therefore biased.
In order to keep the public's attention, sensationalism and bias in media reporting has always been present.
You ask the professor for a sentence con
The advantage of the substance over other available materials is that it's non-polar, so the ability of substances to bond is not especially cause for alarm.
Zhuang Zhou tells the tale of an argument between Confucius and a member of the Legalist school named Hui Shi.
The document has been criticized for apparent pro-Trinitarian bias.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'covert'.
A potential weakness of using secondary sources, is that they may contain the writer's own bias.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'eliminated'.
The geneticist made an implicit racial bias when analyzing the statistics. In reality, the difference between the races aren't as great as he would have led us to believe.
It was disregarded as propaganda created by the government of one of history's most ruthless and infamous dictators, whom many accused of engineering a massive cover-up of the true extent of the damage caused by the tsunami.
The new information convinced her that she had been biased in her judgment of the opposing argument.
The author's bias against organized religion is apparent.
Academics are taught to be objective and impartial; however, in most cases this is an impossible goal to achieve.
The news report also states that the American government has put pressure on the Mexican government to prevent such biased and unbalanced reporting on the war.
At the same time, the media also has its own set of biases and preferences.
Because the majority of anthropologists are based in universities in the developed world, it is questionable whether they are able to avoid Western world bias.
The potential for political bias in the media is huge. Powerful people can give favors to journalists in exchange for positive coverage of their side of the story.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "bastion"
The author's obvious bias toward the ancient civilizations of Egypt and Sumer


#brazen

The brazen abduction of the child in broad daylight from her classroom sent shockwaves around the world.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reappearance".
In 1453, the Byzantine Empire collapsed before an invasion force of more than 100,000 Ottoman Turks, who conquered its capital, Constantinople, or modern-day Istanbul--a startling and seemingly impossible moment that would redefine Europe's borders and the
The brazenness of the Charvet gang in pulling off such large robberies in broad daylight and without the use of guns led newspapers to start calling them the 'Bold' band.
Even in the face of the terrible, boring speeches and demands of the unions, the factory owners remained unyielding.
They had the effrontery, the sheer brass Brazenness to ask for more time.
Throughout the remainder of his life, Gompers was accused of being a Red and a Communist but he dismissed such claims with his most famous quote: "I never joined the Communist Party and I have never been asked to join."
Professor: The plotters spoke of taking over radio stations, airports and military bases, and they spoke of doing it all with "brazenness".
The men had the reputation of being clever and resourceful, but also of being arrogant and brazen.
The downfall of his career was brought about by his habit of directly requisitioning supplies and equipment from English businesses under the impression that he was negotiating a secret deal with Britain's War Office, when in fact he was acting on his own behalf.
In the last twenty years, organized crime in America has become more brazen and open than ever.
"Brazen" means No shame; unashamed; undeterred by fear, uncertainty or caution.
The terrorists stood there, inside the lobby of a hotel that was otherwise filled with people, and made their ransom demands, all the while looking completely brazen.
Mecklin then had the nerve to hire two thugs to beat up Rem when he was released from jail and refuse to print the paper until he promised never to write anything against the government or any of its officials ever again.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "enslaved."
The man's face was framed by curly black hair and his eyes were of a beautiful dark brown color, but it was his cheekbones, high and Brazen, that gave him a permanent look of insolence.
The legal system was under the control of a small, corrupt elite who did not hesitate to use it to harass enemies or use trumped-up charges to sentence them to prison terms or even execution in some cases.
Anthony had the brazen gall to propose to the princess himself.
The teenage girls ran off with their boyfriends, the authorities imprisoned the criminals, but no one could catch the brazen thieves.
The bank robbers were so brazen that they painted their van a similar colour as the bank and left it parked at the back of the bank while they went in to rob it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "bellicose".
He told the taxi driver to stop, opened the door and got out right in the middle of the road, leaving his bag on the seat. It was a brazen, reckless thing to do.
After two years with no demand from the crown for his head and with the British public moving on to worrying about more recent crime stories such as the rise of the American gangster Al Capone, Kelly and his lady friend turned up at the home
In addition, he was a man who made no apology for his own weaknesses, being prepared to brazen it out when necessary.
Because newspapers of the day were filled with reports about the killing, the attack became infamous, and Hess' escape made him notorious; it was even compared to the more recent case of Jack the Ripper, a comparison that would persist for decades until
The most brazen violation of the truce was by the Grand Alliance's army, which marched through a flooded countryside to capture a strategic fort.
The brazen bandit refused to leave his hiding place.
The sacking of Rome was seen as a shocking act of wanton destruction which seemed designed to humiliate its victims; there were reports of soldiers committing acts of violence against women in public and brazenly stealing valuable items.
They conspired in broad daylight, with no attempt at secrecy or brazenness.
The republic was proclaimed by a group of politicians, bankers and businessmen, who imprisoned the king, forced his approval of the new government and executed him when he attempted to flee the country in fear of his life.
The Moors' invasion of the Iberian Peninsula is an example of invasion with no prior settlement attempts, while the Norman invasion of England is an example of invasion with settlement attempt.
The Nazis made no real attempt to conceal their genocide campaign during the Second World War, carrying out their slaughter of Jews in a brazen and open way
The fact that he had been dismissed as ambassador to Austria for abusing his position and the fact that whilst still in office he had tried to meddle with the constitution and prevent the election of a president Both these facts were known to me, but I
as he had a reputation for being rather brazen with women
When the new administration was elected, before he took over the reins of power, the new president dismissed all charges against a great number of government officials who had been accused of corruption during the previous administration.
I couldn't believe Mark would have the brazenness to ask me to marry him after what he had done.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apostasy'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'medieval'.
"The events of the past week must have had the Brazen Impudence to commit such a villainous crime.", said Mr. Pickwick
During the Second Empire, Baron Haussmann rebuilt large parts of Paris with wide boulevards; these are often referred to as the "Baron's Brazen Reminder of His Own Grandeurs."
It took the Nazis about twelve years from the beginning of their rule to become as brazen in their ruthlessness as they became.
The students were shocked that the police officer could be so brazen as to demand a bribe right in front of them.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "verbal".
In any case, they maintain close ties to the Empire, and are allowed to live and train in the capital, sometimes even receiving financial support from the ruling class.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "course".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Awareness'.
The test now continues to select words at random from your vocabulary. You continue to answer as best you can.
The terrorists walked through the metal detector and the guards even saw the gun, but were so intimidated they let them pass.
Too late!
As a last, desperate measure the Dutch government secretly hired pirates to seize English merchant ships and their contents under the guise of privateers attacking the English crown.
It was a brazen and completely unmotivated crime.
The general slowed down at the sight of the large number of soldiers blocking the road ahead, but a quick-thinking officer ordered that the bridge be blown up behind him, trapping him with the forces that were fast closing in on the bridge.
Haydn's Symphony No.
They stole into the city, broke into the bank vault, and made off with hundreds of pounds in gold and other treasures-- all without a single police officer while awake to stop them or even to notice their brazen crime.
Not even the return of the British Navy could stop such a brazen attack on British soil.
I remember reading in the newspaper when it happened about the brazen bank robbers who held up a bank at gunpoint and subsequently blew open the cage that held the money with explosives.
The head of the country's leading cancer research center was forced to resign after it was disclosed that he had brazenly abused his position by making money by resourcing government grants.
Benito Mussolini was very brazen and he tried to pick a fight with the Pope!
In the middle of the night she would leave her room and go to his bedside, brazenly flirting with him.
Far more brazen was the Japanese Militant's attempt to breed a new super race.
The Nazis were able to prolong the life of the Third Reich by going back on their promises to the Poles; they showed themselves to be every bit as brazen and ruthless as Stalin.
Without even calling ahead, Martin Luther King, Jr. and a multitude of other African-Americans marched proudly into the Montgomery municipal building to apply for a permit to hold a march against racial discrimination.
It was a bold move in New York City to forcibly take control of the docks from the mob and create a monopoly.
The culprits wore balaclavas but were otherwise dressed in fairly
I was so angry I did something quite brazen.
The house was built in 1910, during that period when people frowned on Colonial architecture and preferred buildings that were more modern and European in style.
The bank robbers were very brazen and held up the bank in broad daylight.
During the visit of the American army to London, one soldier was accused of being brazen by an onlooker; he promptly drew a pistol and threatened to blow out the man's brains if he used that word again.
The new republic was founded on the ideals of the Enlightenment and that governments are there to secure the rights of citizens, but North Korea under Kim Il-sung , predictably, defied such Western notions like democracy and freedom of speech.
Brazen thefts are commonplace in that area, I hear.
Banks didn't seem to be bothered by the fact that he was appearing to cooperate with Eubanks's enemies.
Q: Give an example that shows how science can be used to advantage without really understanding the underlying principles.
Although he had faced charges before for his unconventional and arguably illegal Wall Street "raid" that made him wealthy, his brazen behavior in the Senate hearings took even his adversaries by surprise.
The bank robbers were so brazen that they locked the staff in the vault before making their escape.
The Pope has been a vocal critic of nuclear weapons, calling for the abolition of weapons which he describes as 'a serious threat to the human race whose effects will be felt for decades or even centuries to come and whose risk of a chain reaction cannot
The success of the Protestants was partly due to their more militant and uncompromising nature which allowed them to gain support from many of the major monarchs in addition to the middle classes who were becoming increasingly wealthy and ambitious.
The men soon found that the thieves had broken into the bank's underground safe, which held most of the gold coins in the building, and had taken some $200,000 in bullion and also some bank notes.
The dean was even willing to go so far as to pick a student to train as his successor, but he was so brazen that even he wouldn't go so far as to dictate how said student would live his life.
And the climax of this extraordinary behavior comes when he kidnaps the Pope, in broad daylight and with his guards standing by, no less, and holds him for a ransom of a chest filled with a king's ransom in gold.
"One might argue that the prisoners are merely eager to end their wretched lives, but I had thought that even the humblest of God's creatures had more sense than to commit suicide, regardless of the circumstances."
The captain was so brazen that he didn't even change in his own quarters, but instead would dress and shave in the Admiralty's boardroom right in front of the chairman.
The captain stood on the bridge of the ship, the wind whipping through his hair, and stared at the horizon with a smirk on his face.
"Now, please, old fellow," he said in a voice that sounded irritated.
Lack of significant opposition to the King's policies was a result of his shameless use of bribery, coercion and even the notoriously feared Star Chamber to silence his enemies.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apostasy'.
When I open the newspaper and find yet another story of brazen corruption, it just makes me want to throw the thing in the bin.
Protesters started to march to the building and demanded the paintings to be returned to Cuba.
Brazen law breaking by the rich and powerful, especially in the financial field, was largely ignored.
In the later years of his reign he became increasingly autocratic, went through a public break up with his wife, and became increasingly paranoid and suspected that prominent politicians, such as William Pitt the Younger, were plotting against him in what became known as
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'chaotic'.
The student had the brazenness to turn up to the first day of lectures without having read any of the course-related books.
As his plane crossed into Californian airspace, he had a clear view of the destruction Hurricane Brenda had wrought on Los Angeles; broken trees and telephone poles, burnt-out buildings, and the rubble that was all that remained of the mediaeval town
The attackers broke down the palace door and before the guards could stop them, the princess was gone; stolen away in the night like some brazen abduction
The hijackers forced their way on board after seizing the plane's pilot and copilot at gunpoint in the street outside, airport officials said, and demanded that the plane be refuelled for a flight to Australia, implying they had a bomb
The king was in a particularly bad mood that day because of a courtier's insulting comment.
Lacking in moral restraint or decency; bold and shameless.
The new world order that followed, brazenly disregarded all of the tenets of liberal democracy.
It was rare for women to be so brazen as to go out alone, and Nynke's choice of costume was clearly intended to get attention.
In the past few weeks, I had gone from being a shy wallflower to a brazen hussy.
He was a middle-aged man with a mustache and goatee, and the most brazen thief you had ever seen.
The Yankees left the field in a brazen display of sportsmanship, that they should have won.


#claim

The most important thing to remember for the exam is not to make extravagant claims you can't back up.
The effect of advertising on society is to make people think that there is more choice than there really is.
The main claim of this paper is that the text of the "Protocols" found in many languages is practically the same, despite the fact that they were written by different authors at different times.
Most economists nowadays would probably claim that the industrial revolution wouldn't have happened in the way it did, and perhaps not at
The French Regency was an era where a series of royal 'claimants' to the throne were all effectively ruled by a powerful parliament.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
Knowledge in this unit is divided into theories and hypotheses.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'emphasize'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "theme".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'on'.
The theologians' primary claim is that the deity's intervention is unnecessarily complex, and human free will can explain the origin of humans just as well.
Most of the people who came to Batavia were men and hence had no family that they needed to care for in the East.
The greatest logical claim against it would be that it fails to explain the "missing link".
But if you want to claim it affects your child's personality, then absolutely, as a behavioral geneticist, I can tell you there's absolutely a genetic contribution to childhood behavior.
However, he's also made some pretty outrageous claims that his research was going to lead to the cure for cancer.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'claim'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'rule'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'claim'.
The problem with the claim that addicts should be imprisoned is that prison is very expensive, and it costs more to keep an addict in prison than they would earn if they worked.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'claim'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'claim'.
The priests claim that the Church is the only true path to enlightenment and salvation, and that your parents have strayed from the righteous path.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'claim'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "describe".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'claim'.
Although nowhere in the Quran, it is usually claimed that the Quraysh pressured Muhammed into adding the traditions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'claim'.
But he didn't claim that modern humans had instead evolved in one particular region of the world, and then spread from there.
But he didn't claim that modern humans had instead evolved in one particular region of the world, and then spread from there.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'claim'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "foreign".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "foreign".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "adhere".
I think we can all agree that if space aliens land on the White House lawn, that's going to mean a ch
The king claimed that he had won the battle for his side all by himself and demanded that he be celebrated.
The troublemaker claimed that the Queen was a tyrant that needed to be removed from power in order to to save the country.
Claudia believed that Britain would become involved in a world war.
Professor: She claimed that the war began because of nationalism and militarism and because of rivalries between the great powers.
The professor claimed that the course was extremely popular because of these features.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'attacks'.
The most important religious aspect of the war was the fact that it was seen by the Protestants as a war sanctioned by God.
"The very phrasing of the claim that there is a gap implies a polarity between the two things — in this case, men and women."
It seems almost incredible that such a great work should have been 'claimed' by one man.
Professor: For the politicians of the democracies, initiating a new war would have been political suicide.
In its strongest form, the claim is that the existing body of research into human language is so fundamentally flawed that studies based on it are meaningless.
The conference was dominated by the debate over their different claims to human origins.
We have always claimed that the ability to reason is the definition of being human.
The English made more than a few extravagant claims about the city's size and wealth.
-"One of the main reasons that fascism claimed so many supporters and was able to take power legally in the first place is that the left chose a path of violence,"
I remember reading about a conference where someone claimed that modern human beings are living in a post-truth era.
The new evidence will be scrutinized and won't be accepted unless it can be proven without doubt or a plausible alternate explanation can be proposed.
The more I read the popular literature on the subject, the more I am convinced that some of its adherents claim it has been known for years, even millennia, that human cancer is caused by externally introduced bacteria.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'centuries'.
The government has made some strong economic claims that most economists are skeptical about.
The demise of imperialism can be said to have had a positive effect on the subjugated colonies, as presumably they were left free to manage their own affairs.
"The concept of private property only developed with the rise of capitalism and the industrial revolution, both of which have their origins in 17th-century England," claimed Reginald.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "freedom".
"The brain is a computer with a million million switches," Semir says. "With the right program you can do anything,"
Professor: Today some of the Flemish minorities still claim to be refugees from a sea of linguistic and religious oppression.
Labor movements and trade unions have long claimed to be the main representative of the working class.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apparatus'.
Now with an improved experimental apparatus, Hess was ready to carry out his previous plan.
The theory of relativity implies that matter can be converted into energy.
The major difficulties involved in laying claim to its discovery were the actual transport of diamonds from South Africa.
'The government's claims that it had the right to prevent people from leaving the country were not accepted by the court'.
In order to prove this, they would have to settle the dispute over the site at present and return with more funding.
40. Who is the professor talking about at the beginning of the passage?
The league claimed that the people would not have to pay more taxes and as a result, prices would remain the same.
The American government claimed in 1871 that the bounty hunters were dangerous to society.
It was the Portuguese who first made the bold claim to exclusive trading rights in Chi
Although he claimed that he had acted in self-defense and was acquitted by a local court, the public uproar rendered it necessary to hand him over to another jurisdiction.
The claim that Irish civilization was destroyed by barbarians has tended to be strongly denied in Ireland.
The theory of intelligent design claims that certain features of the world are too complex to have evolved randomly, and therefore must have been designed by an intelligent being.
The most serious claim against the government is that it disregarded safety standards while attempting to achieve tight construction deadlines.
The only thing in which all anarcho-capitalists agree is that almost all other forms of government, namely tyranny, have a monopoly of force over an area and individuals are not free to do as they please.
The communist governments in eastern Europe claimed that the social and economic system they had set up was an improvement on the old capitalist one.
In other words, the primacy of language implies that there might be some connection between a word like "father" and the actual biological relationship, or "real father."
He claimed he saw the four students enter the cave, and climbing another rock formation he was able to see the cave's entrance, but not the interior.
Some politicians in the late nineteenth century made the claim that if given the right to vote, workers would use that power to pass damaging laws that favored them at the expense of the upper class.
The first person to claim that the human race originated from more than one common ancestor was the naturalist Charles Darwin, who published his theory of evolution in 1859.
As you are forced to lie on a cold operating table, Dr Boom appears with a pen-torch and starts writing numbers with a marker on your arm.
The conquest of Ireland by England would claim another six thousand lives.
The novel's claim to be semi-autobiographical is obviously very large part of its appeal.
DNA from the mitochondria, a part of cells that has its own DNA, was used to trace maternal lineages while DNA from the nucleus, which carries most of the genes, was used to determine paternal ancestry.
"The common people don't complain," he said, "as long as their entertainments and
Sometime in the early 1830s, Joseph Smith, founder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, claimed he had found a set of golden plates buried in upstate New York.
'If you didn't eat all the peanuts, I'm going to kill you!' is a sentence that contains the word 'claim'.
The most common claims made by the group were that American political policies of the last fifty years had been influenced by a race of human aliens.
The army was expanding and recruiting able-bodied men of high school age in a policy that had been aimed at promoting military
The claim that the Native Americans originally came from Asia was first made by scientists in the 19th century.
The text states that while it wouldn't be entirely accurate to call the counterculture movement a revolution, it was certainly more than just a cry for attention.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "edition".
The geneticists claim that one of the genes they have isolated, called HMGA2, is so important that it can completely change our views on human history.
The judge denied the defendant's claim of innocence.
There is plenty of evidence to support this claim.
Once a week my mother would claim that the meal she was serving was "the best you've ever eaten", when we all knew it was simply the least burnt.
There is no claim that the different methods will produce different results, since all the methods used involve presenting subjects with pictures.
Professor: The council was also worried that such work would undermine the moral basis of medic's work, as it would appear to be genetic of origin.
The American historian claimed that the importance of the Renaissance in American historiography has been its impact on the values of the people who created it.
Recent investigations have found inconclusive evidence of use by these tribes, and the archaeological record suggests that they were used for a very limited time.


#clarify

He often spoke of the need to clarify certain points of doctrine and make them accessible to the masses, although he believed that only a chosen few would be able to truly understand and accept his views.
However, the technology is still in its early stages and has been used primarily to probe individual genes rather than entire genomes.
In order to clarify his meaning, he gave an extended example, which I will do my best to summarize.
The revolutionary movements of the late eighteenth and early nineteen centuries failed to clarify the role of the aristocracy in the evolving political process.
The situation in British-ruled Ireland between 1920 and 1922 just before the Anglo-Irish treaty has been described as a period of turmoil that didn't clarify until 1922.
When the government couldn't clarify its position on the issue, it was soon put into trusteeship by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.
The latest research should clarify the position of the Prime Minister.
People seek to clarify humanistic articles in their own ways.
In order to clarify a point, please raise your hand.
The lack of funds forced the King to ask Parliament to pass Acts enabling the raising of loans from the public, which Parliament did but each time they clarified their right to do so in return.
His explanation didn't really clarify the issue; if anything, it was even more confusing.
The final report was an attempt to clarify the events by stating exactly what happened during the incident.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "implication".
He was forced to clarify his remarks when it became clear that some people had misunderstood what he had meant.
The two main factors that complicate and inhibit scientific research into human evolution in Africa are the political climate and the idealogical approaches.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'revolutionise'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elaborate'.
In this difficult situation, governments will have to clarify what are fair and reasonable profits.
The trial judge must clarify the wording of proposed instructions to the jury.
However, there is still some disagreement between the two groups, especially about how to best clarify the curriculum.
The second meaning of the word "clear" in English is in the sense of making something comprehensible;
The assessment will be based on the answers that you give in this questionnaire.
He asked her to clarify the exact point she was making.
It was not until his later writings that he attempted to clarify his theory.
The new statistical sciences were needed to clarify the situation.
Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin was the first person to clarify the complex chemical composition of stars.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "obsolete".
He was impressed by the fact that I had clarified the issue and that he needn't worry about the challenges of the future.
The way in which the topic of the French Revolution has been taught is very different from how it used to be taught, because now the professors clarify the complicated theories and present new evidence uncovered by historians.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "western".
The German Empire of 1871-1918 is called the Second Reich. The First Reich is an archaic term for the Holy Roman Empire.
The philosopher tries to clarify our understanding of the world by finding underlying fundamentals and essences.
But by the mid-1930s, the situation for the Jews in Germany had become so bad that he clarified that his theory was not a justification for persecuting or killing them.
The work of the structural linguist Kenneth Pike had a profound effect on the field.
The Americanization Movement, or the push to clarify one's pride and patriotism for America, was a prominent one in the early twentieth century.
The new theory aims to clarify problems that have dogged psychological science for many years.
Until this meeting we were not aware of the need to clarify our goal.
You've received 33% of the total score.
The 17th century was a time of tremendous advances in science and the scientific method was developed to clarify many fundamental questions about the world.
By 1541, however, Charles was making progress, and the Pope, unable to clarify his role in the scheme of things, excommunicated him.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "Origin".
The scientist's clarification only served to confuse you even more.
It is complicated. I want to clarify some of the issues that have been raised and explain where I'm coming from.
In part, the rise of radical Islam can be seen as a reaction against the perceived moral decline of Western society and the failure of Western leaders to deal with that decline.
You ask the professor for a sentence that has the word 'gentrification'.
One of the most common criticisms of gentrification is that it ultimately harms the community as the cost of living increases and the locality experiences redevelopment.
An important factor in the strengthening of European nations in the half century after the war was the efforts put into "industrialization"
In the 1920s, however, thermodynamics was interpreted to support a fluctuation theory of evolution.
The theory seeks to clarify the confusion caused by the different ways that scientists categorize groups.
One of his main concerns seemed to be to clarify the role that religion played in the development of moral values.
To clarify the various political positions in the Victorian age, we need to examine the major political institutions of the time.
The doctrine of parliamentary supremacy is sometimes called upon by courts when they wish to clarify legal principles which are uncertain.
It is sometimes hard to clarify the exact cause of historical events.
Efforts to clarify the situation only served to deepen his confusion.
Some historians try to clarify events by adding information about the social status of the people involved, and why they behaved the way they did.
As a result, the age of rocks and the fossils they contain had to be re-examined and re-dated, which required a lot of complex work and the clarification of certain concepts first.
Finally you ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'complexity'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "insurrection".
The 16th century reformation clarified the religion for many Christians.
We need to clarify his role in the scandal.
The role of the Church in English society has been somewhat clarified by the changes brought about in the past decade by the new king.
However, to clarify, the principle of one person, one vote is taken as given in this system.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'neighbour'.
Theory had been a mode of clarifying meaning, but when it was cut off from practice, as in art theory, it degenerated into purely formalistic exercises.
The philosopher wished to clarify the meaning of life, which he believed was too ambiguous.
The main aim of education is to "clarify" students with the ability and talent.
However, I will need to clarify my position on the matter.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "indication".
We must clarify the roles of the various security branches of the government and limit the control exercised by each.
They must clarify what its exact nature is before the international community can respond effectively.
Finally, it is important to remember that even with this settlement in Dublin, the British government still has an obligation to clarify its policy on Northern Ireland.
Although he might be a brilliant theoretician, if he cannot clarify his findings so that a nonspecialist can understand them, his work is less valuable.
However, the new social radicals' demands for equal opportunity and their critiques of sexism, racism, militarism and other social ills pointed toward a more complex understanding of society that needed to be clarified.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'origin'.
The Lord Chancellor clarified that he had not made the remarks that had been attributed to him.
Sander's view of the situation would clarify and dictate policy.
It is hoped that the policies outlined above will clarify the situation for all employees.
She had explained that the easiest way to deal with the press was to never say anything of significance and just try to clarify things later.
It is important that the United States clarify its position on the use of power in Korea.
Trotsky's books can't clarify the fact that he led to the deaths of many Russians, and I don't see why you glorify him so much.
Stalin's main purpose was to clarify and summarize major ideas of Marxism.
The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes wrote works attempting to clarify some of the ideas propounded by previous philosophers such as John Locke.
The research could also help to clarify some long-standing scientific controversies, such as the role of race in medicine.
The native inhabitants of Australia are thought to have arrived in Australia between 50,000 and 60,000 years ago. The exact route they took across the ocean from ancient Southeast Asia is not known but it is assumed that they travelled in simple boats.
Ironically, it was the Fascists who later clarified and refined Mussolini's doctrine.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "moral".
The morality of suicide bombers from a religious point of view is not simple, as it involves a combination of factors.
The laws of the land did not sufficiently clarify the rules regulating the fishing industry.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elaborate'.
The exact reasons for the collapse of the Mayan civilization are still not very clear.
Unfortunately, these ideas have never been properly clarified and tested.
The purpose of the study is to clarify and support the conclusions of other research
Eliminating all the unnecessary items in the house would also clarify our ability to reason logically.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'early'.
The English Civil War resulted in administrative and legislative changes that clarified the roles of central government.
The conference will give you a chance to clarify any points that your colleagues feel are unclear in your writing.
The rules of procedure are intended to clarify the policy choices that need to be made.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fantasy'.
The two-party system is widely blamed for failing to clarify the issues for voters and for producing unhappy losers as well as inefficient, undisciplined and corrupt governments.
In consequence, in the course of time each learned and passed on to his pupils mainly those parts of the sacred writings that emphasise rather the ethical standards of human conduct or clarify doctrinal points.
The problem, of course, is that sometimes the authors themselves haven't always agreed on the correct interpretation of what they mean, which is why it often takes specialists in particular areas—like myself—to clarify.
The main purpose, then, of this chapter is to clarify the points that have been raised and explore further the nature of language.
Unfortunately, the speech didn't help clarify the president's position on the issue.
In the nineteenth century, it was important that the rules of the game be clarified before it spread any further.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "The".


#reinforce

And so the media in the United States reinforced the American stereotype of robots as helpful, friendly machines.
The Troubles in Ireland resulted from centuries-old tensions between Catholic Irish nationalists and Protestant British colonists.
The purpose of the second front was to keep pressure off the main Normandy forces, so the Nazis couldn't concentrate their troops in case of a breakout.
Nurses have on occasion re-used needles, merely disinfecting them.
Even if the labor supply was cut off from Britain, the British would force their empire to provide workers as they did when they enslaved people in Australia and South Africa to work in their mines.
They got rid of the old companies the Dutch deserted and replaced them with new companies to reinforce their army
So the Royalists were not annihilated, but strengthened and reinvigorated by their exile, ready to take up arms to restore their beloved King.
The council decided to reinforce the police presence on the streets of the city centre at night.
Within two years of the law's passage, an increase in the numbers of women entering college had already begun to occur.
However, the rulers also needed to maintain the loyalty of their armed forces.
The kings tried to reinforce the idea that they were divinely chosen rulers.
However, the main problem with this plan was that it might also strengthen the resolve of the governments of their opponents.
The Magna Carta was a legal document that reinforced certain political liberties.
The fall of the Third Reich and the defeat of the Axis powers during World War II significantly reinforced the prestige of the US as a world power.
The troops were reinforced by some citizens who were armed with hunting rifles, but these citizens weren't battle-hardened soldiers.
The first incident has been very useful in reinforcing the stereotype of football fans as hooligans.
The Spanish armies marched further into the Aztec territory and managed to reinforce their battered camp with supplies.
The politicians hoped that emphasizing the role of the king's divine rule would reinforce the people's faith in royalty as a justification for the monarchy.
Any attempt to reinforce the German army would probably be too little and too late.
After the experience of the First World War, which had seen huge losses from the elite classes on the Western Front – the last million British casualties alone had been officers – the Second Vienna Award was far more cautious about reinforcing Hungarian troops in southern Slovakia.
Institutional constraints were still strong enough to prevent governments from giving in to the demands of the masses.
The exercise problem of reinforcement gradient is still a very real challenge to applied behavior analysts.
In 1871, the National Guard was frequently deployed to break up union strikes and demonstrations, but by this time it had developed into a large and unwieldy force with little loyalty to the emperor.
The king demanded that the soldiers enforce his power and authority.
Although the Dutch Republic did not militarily intervene in the French Civil War of 1793, it nonetheless reinforced its policy of establishing clients states in northern France by giving military assistance to the newly created Batavian Republic.
The fourteenth-century black death was the first of the many plagues that reinforced the idea of a wrathful God in the minds of many people.
If your application is successful, it will reinforce our position in the market.
His cruel bent was reinforced by years in an orphanage.
Violent and sexual crime rates are known to increase in the vicinity of a pornographic magazine stand. This effect is known as the "trash bin effect".
The defeat at Crete convinced Hitler that the invasion of Britain was no longer possible, and he decided to reinforce his position in Egypt.
One of the key effects of the English Civil War was to reinforce the importance of parliament in running the country.
Leadership is not a quality that can be taught in a class or acquired from a book; it must be reinforced by experience.
The decline in early Christian beliefs was somewhat reversed when Constantine I agreed without coercion to grant official toleration to Christianity and other creeds, a measure that further reinforced the new faith.
Another aim of the English garrisons was to prevent any foreign power from reinforcing a rebel Irish stronghold.
But as well as encouraging good work, these tests also reinforced the idea that some people are naturally intelligent while others are not.
The expansion of the railways in 19th-century America reinforced the development of industry and commerce.
His policy was to reinforce England's territorial gains in Ireland.
By holding on to certain traditional institutions, the church was still a powerful force in the medieval society and one which could be used to reinforce official policy.
The legate of Carthage promised to punish the mercenaries involved in this incident and attempted to reinforce the idea that the attack was unjustified.
The bombing of the Frisian land equally with the intent on destroying the earth under, was significant in that it reinforced both sides and made the conflict everlasting.
Their victories served to reinforce his already considerable reputation as a military leader.
The floodgates were opened, and the bill was scheduled to be signed into law as a reinforcement of the first amendment.
Although guns were known in the West at this time, no attempt was made to reinflce the stockades that encircled each town.
The major parties in the 19th century were keen to pass welfare reforms such as healthcare and unemployment benefits, as well as laws that improved working conditions, in order to try to reinforce their monopoly on the loyalty of industrial workers.
The steady strengthening of the police force the past few years has reinforced the notion that a small group of terrorists was behind these attacks.
The completion of his house reinforced the growing belief that the brotherhood was gaining in strength and numbers.
Reinforcements had to be called in from as far away as Portsmouth, but by the time they arrived, the peasants had been crushed.
Religious organizations have not always approved of the methods of the Inquisition, but since it was sanctioned by the Catholic Church most Catholics were required to defend it.
That was the end of the Progressive Era, which can be seen as a period when citizens pushed for reform movements in order to better American society and government.
‘They promised to reinforce the ceiling but there are still a lot of large holes up there.
The major political events of the long 18th century are difficult to understand and impossible to evaluate without taking into consideration the rise of the middle classes.
However, the existence of the Etruscans does prove that the ancient Romans did not 'reinforce' (improve) their civilisation on other people's inventions.
It was also decided to reinforce the land forces protecting the border.
Now these economists thought that their theories could help the situation in a practical way, just like the invention of double-entry bookkeeping had made the Italian merchant princes rich and powerful.
If you keep reinforcing a child's natural gift when they are young, they will continue to improve upon that skill.
The power of the working classes had been comprehensively
Citizens were forced to spend a long time unemployed and ineffectually looking for work in order to qualify for benefits, and these were gradually withdrawn as they started work, thus reinforcing the link in their minds between looking for work and being in work
Research has shown that more men than women attempt suicide, and the availability of a gun in the home increases the risk of death.
Fortunately, there has always been an element in most societies that resists change, the conservatives.
The new theory has reinforced long-held fears that fish stocks are badly depleted.
In natural selection, only the organisms with advantageous traits will survive to reproduce in future generations, and these traits will therefore become more common. This process is known as positive selection. It plays a large role in adaptive evolution.
The U.S. government's ability to assist the troubled economies of East Asia was reinforced by Asian countries' decisions not to let their currencies "float" on inte
The main consequence of the practice, however, is that it reinforces what we've come to know as the class system.
The workers were so poor, though, that they couldn't possibly afford to strike for more than a few days. This ensured that strikes never really 'took off' in the 19th century.
Timbaland's production reinforces his lyrics perfectly.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'disagree'.
However, it was not the social or political reformers who benefited most from this progress; rather it was the military men who learned how to use this new technology to reinforce their armies and increase their conquests.
The Anschluss and the Munich Agreement were designed to reinforce the power of the Nazis in Germany.
In 1808, the British government tried to reinforce their hold on their colony by banning the use of Bengali.
Despite the improvements made, most of the roads in America still needed to be repaired.
It soon became clear that the purpose of the fort was to reinforce their claim to the island.
The 'separate and unequal' doctrine had already been reinforced by the US supreme court in other cases.
In sharp contrast, Maoist China was enthusiastic about improving relations with the United States, and started exchanging ambassadors with Washington in 1971.
Zheng He's voyages had little scientific results, but they reinforced the extreme isolation in which China was to remain until the arrival of the Westerners in the XVII century.
The aristocracy's power was greatly decreased as the power of parliament increased, which lead to a series of events which reinforced the idea of parliamentary democracy.
"He therefore reinforced his troops before resuming the advance."
The support from the parliament and the king made it easier for him to reinforce his troops.
Meanwhile, the king attempted to reinforce his sides by creating new cavalry units.
The most typical medium for art, literature, drama and entertainment during this period was the printed form.
In the Middle Ages the people wanted to defend themselves from the Normans in England, so they built castles. The castle strengthened the Norman rule.
The country's support for the rebels was merely a cynical attempt to undermine its main rivals, and when that no longer seemed to be paying off, it withdrew its support and tried to reinstate the previous government.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'arrival'.
The increased popularity of newspapers led to the growth of advertising and reinforced the idea of consumer-driven economy.
Their choice of anti-aircraft guns or large numbers of fighter planes would therefore have reinforced German dominance in the air.
Argentina's attempt to conquer the sparsely populated region established to stop future territorial disputes between the countries.
Reinforcements were sent to the town, but by then the fighting was all but over.
The army was sent in to reinforce the weak spots in the wall and shore up the defenses.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideology'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'practical'.
The Great Wall of China was reinforced by the Ming Emperors Hongwu and Yongle.
Sun Tzu said that a wise commander should endeavor to reinforce his victories.
The historians, writers, and artists of the Romantic movement used their works to reinforce a new sense of nationalism.
The purpose of the CIA's program, as stated by its first director Allen Dulles, was to combat the "Soviet scourge".
My friends have tried to reinforce my self-esteem by telling me how much they like me.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conquer'.
The superficial knowledge of the English suffered immensely as many words, that to native speakers sounded plainly English, were used wrongly by them.
The government used the trains to move soldiers around the country and reinforce front-line units.
The Catholics in Ireland unsuccessfully tried to rally local support, but the Protestants successfully reinforced their troops and installed a military governor.
The African slave trade and the infamous Trail of Tears were intended to reinforce the idea that Native Americans and Africans were inferior to white people.
Under Habsburg Emperor Maximilian I, Protestantism was forcibly suppressed in order to reinforce Roman Catholicism.
This will reinforce the border defenses which will protect us from any exterior forces.


#calculate

The fundamental method of calculus is the idea that when a variable changes, the rate of change of another is also changing.
Is it possible to calculate the amount of cars that will be on the road given a particular day?
That means that if the world population doubles again, there simply won't be enough resources for us all to survive.
Professor Foster pauses briefly to do some mental arithmetic, before announcing that the answer is 875 million
They multiply the number of parameters they need to measure by the odds of a satellite picking up a trace signal, and then multiply that product by the number of square kilometers they plan to scan, and that gives them the odds of finding your cell phone
The precise number of people who had to be killed to make the revolution successful can never be calculated.
It is not easy to calculate the exact amount of years, because while some Christian churches keep a good written record, others do not.
I'm sorry, but I can't calculate the total amount you need without knowing your pay rate.
The most accurate figures require you to calculate the national debt at not only at the end of each year but also at the end of every month.
... Thus, the amount of energy the biospheres absorbed was less than that of which they radiated.
It's not just the computer nerds who benefit from this facility, the fitter you are generally, the more calories you'll be able to calculate you'll need for an expedition.
Making plans is in our nature: it is common to all people and it arises when the mind perceives an 'if' or a 'when.'
Mathematicians typically must analyze problems and come up with the appropriate algorithms to solve them, and then they must write instructions for the computer to carry out these algorithms.
The effectiveness of the Common Agricultural Policy has been difficult to calculate, but it is generally agreed that it is more helpful to the rich than the poor.
Cave paintings and other artifacts from the Paleolithic period—also known as the Stone Age, from about 200,000 to 10,000 years ago—are often difficult to date.
The judge had to calculate the probable sentence the murderer would have got if he had been found guilty at a
Nevertheless, he still felt slightly guilty and didn't even attempt to calculate the precise amount of money he had saved.
Professor: Water can be calculated to have a specific heat capacity of one calorie per gram per degree Celsius.
In the first stage, we had to calculate the exact mass of the proton and neutron that made up the atomic nuclei.
Most people would have difficulty in calculating the number of atoms in a group of cells the size of the period at the end of this sentence.
If there are 30 people in the lifeboat, and three hats, then each person has a 10 ‑to‑ 1 ‑chance of getting a hat.
If we calculate the average household energy consumption during the past two centuries, it would be reasonable to predict that energy consumption will increase about 300% in the next century.
Mathematicians can estimate the value of "π" to more decimal places than there are in the universe.
Give a computer the age of the universe, in seconds, and it can calculate to the last digit the odds of the universe existing
As the Scottish philosopher David Hume pointed out in the eighteenth century, scientific laws do not calculate an exactitude of result; instead, they allow us to determine the range of possibilities.
The exact date of the trial result's announcement had been calculated
Professor: It was not possible to calculate the size of the explosive potential of such weapons or more atom bombs,
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'dramatic'.
Mathematicians calculated that around the time of the Big Bang, one milligram of matter weighed more than a mountain.
The task of the historian is to accurately calculate what happened in the past rather than to judge or moralize about it.
The odds of correctly calculating a four-digit pin number on the first try is close to zero.
After much calculation and double-checking, the professor returned to the group with the value 15,000 BP for the median distance separating the various human populations.
Scientists should be able to predict and calculate many of the consequences of climate change with adequate data.
If you want to calculate the average weight of a can of paint, you divide the total weight of all the cans by the number of cans.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'dispute'.
One is forced to the conclusion that for every thousand children who show some aptitude at basic mathematical calculations, only one will go on to specialize in the field.
A brain surgeon can calculate the exact amount of a drug to administer to produce the desired effect.
The company will have to recalculate the amount of money in its budget if it wants to remain viable,
The early trains were slowed by lack of energy, so they couldn't travel faster than 15 miles per hour, which was as fast as the average person could walk.
Calculating its orbit is difficult because the asteroid is so small and so close to the sun, whose gravitational field significantly affects Mathilde's orbit.
You interrupt the professor.
The study of the economy is known as economics, and economists try to calculate how much something is worth.
The Royal Society designed an experiment to calculate the strength of gunpowder.
The prosecutor carefully calculates the salary you would have earned during that time and assesses a fine equivalent to three times that amount.
'Do you know how much money you would have made if you had calculated the probability of that happening, instead of just putting your money on red?
It is by no means clear what the outcome of this meeting will be; it is likely that we will have to calculate based on a number of possibilities.
He is a great mathematician and scientist.
The amount of energy in a system can be calculated if you know the mass of the objects and the speeds at which they're moving.
Because the topic of both articles is identical, we will be able to calculate the exact p-value using the standard calculation for correlated proportions.
How can you calculate standard deviations, mean values and the equations for probability?
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "observe".
However, in the middle of the eighteenth century, it was impossible to predict an eclipse with such precision-even if it could be predicted, the instruments were not accurate enough to calculate the position of the moons.
We can easily calculate the age of a piano by measuring the amount of carbon 14 it contains and making a simple calculation.
Most economists calculate a trade-off between the amount of money spent on health care and the length of life that results.
In September the German high command could calculate that there were 56 of these divisions altogether, of which 39 were at the front and 17 in reserve.
Geneticists have thus far been unable to calculate the time and place of Adam and Eve's birth.
Calculating the correct amount of fertilizer to apply to fields, especially when the type of fertilizer was changing, required a great deal of knowledge.
Finally, you ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inhale'.
In class the next day, you see that your fellow students are all laughing.
1. He never could calculate the right tip.
Its latest software can predict the effects of any changes in a model's variables and calculate the results in only a few seconds.
The second was to try to calculate the size of the French fighting forces.
During the war you must calculate your moves very carefully in order to avoid unnecessary danger
The basis of the computer program for this machine is to calculate the solution
A good statistician can calculate the probability of any given sequence of events.
The teacher had to calculate the average mark of the exam to give to the principal.
The ghost materialized in front of a crowd of terrified people.
It is not always easy to calculate the appropriate amount of calories.
"Systems can be very sensitive to initial conditions: even a small difference at the beginning can grow and grow until what happens becomes radically different."
Professor: The population has grown by a third in the last 30 years but in that time production of food has increased by less than a quarter.
Most military satellites are primarily designed for reconnaissance, but they have some weaponry.
As the size of the male brain is already at the limit of what is physiologically possible, it is unlikely that there will be any increase in intelligence caused by natural selection.
I will use it to calculate the number of cells in the brain.
The only real way to calculate the average IQ of a population is to put together a massive questionnaire that is then analysed by experts.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ambition'.
It wasn't until 1994 that a formal apology was issued to all ethnic Hawaiian who were eligible for payments.
It is a difficult problem to determine the speed of light, as it involves a lot of complex mathematics.
Automation has made many manufacturing processes faster and cheaper, but it doesn't necessarily follow that increased productivity will translate into higher wages for workers or smaller hours for personnel.
The population had increased to such an extent that it was having serious implications on natural resources.
A mathematical relationship between chance and skill is possible to calculate (Pettit & Smith, 1998).
The company's chief accountant calculated that the company would make a loss on the deal.
It was good fortune for the general that his mathematical abilities were as sharp as his sword, and he quickly calculated an attack strategy.
It is really quite easy to calculate the profitability and hence your return on investment using standard financial instruments.
I was never very good at math and that hasn't changed at all, I usually ask the computer to do all the hard calculations and stuff that requires an advanced knowledge of mathematics.
The high school had a policy that only the valedictorian and salutatorian were permitted to give speeches, and Nick was not one of them.
While the other gases in the atmosphere had fluctuated throughout Earth's history, the amount of carbon dioxide had always remained fairly constant -- leading to the greenhouse effect and the temperature that allows life to thrive.
Calculating the amount of energy that modern bombs release, the heat capacity of major cities and the timing of the atmospheric tests.
The archeologists had to calculate the age of the remains they had found using scientific techniques.
Calculating the precise probability of life arising on a particular world is difficult.
The amount of energy released by the two explosions points to at least 200 kilograms of explosive, and the limited damage suggests that the explosive was probably a plastic such as acetone peroxide, a type that is easy to detonate yet powerful.
The bank teller cautiously calculates the amount of money to give you with a shaky hand.
Your task is to write a computer program that will be able to calculate the total area of the blackened regions.
Calculating the airspeed velocity of an American passenger plane is simple enough for a calculator.
I've asked them to calculate the velocity of the installation as it travels through the galaxy, and then factor in for duration of trip, distance to travel, gravitational pulls, speed of light, and any other astronomical measures that they can think
Mathematicians can calculate the velocity to which a stone falls based on gravitational pull and weight of the stone.
The US government has had to recalculate the amount of food aid it gives to foreign countries, because there was an overestimation of the amount of food was going to be needed.
In the early twentieth century, it was possible to calculate the age of the Earth by tracking radiation levels.
A new machine that can quickly calculate large sums is very valuable for the company.
The mathematics involved in calculating the orbits is incredibly complex, but fortunately computers can calculate it all for us.
Make sure you can calculate the price of a loaf of bread in 18th century Jamaica.
Professor: The experiment is intended to calculate the average mass of a single chromosome in human DNA and then multiply that by the number of chromosomes in human cells.
The only problem was that the weight of the humback was so great, it required special snow clearing equipment to be brought in to clear its runway during the winter months, and even then it could only land if the snow was more than eighteen inches
In general, children start to identify numbers and count around age two through instruction—active teaching—by adults or calculation.


#capitalise

The key to their success, it seems, is that the company has capitalised on the common sense requirement that cell phones be used as cameras or MP3 players or whatever additional function a cell phone can perform.
The fall of the Roman Empire resulted in Western Europe's capital, financial, and agricultural centers being shifted to the northern part of the continent.
The French didn't
The 16th-century German cartographer Martin Waldseemuller, who Latinised his name to Corruptio morum prave (latin) or corruption of morals (English), was the first person to capitalise the name,
It is claimed that one of the major benefits of a free market economy is that it can often lead to a situation where those involved in such an economy are motivated by profit, and hence are more likely to 'capitalize' on any technological innovations
The development of capitalism in Britain relied greatly on the consolidation of the Royal Navy.
The problem with the idea was that it would be very difficult to secure private investors, without having some record of a working prototype.
The Industrial Revolution gradually took hold in Great Britain as the government capitalized, or invested in, new industries and businesses.
The Jacobins had the most direct power, as they capitalised most quickly on the popular dissatisfaction with the regime.
The American government believed that, if they did not
The English Civil War led to the execution of Charles I in 1649 and the installation of a military dictatorship under Oliver Cromwell.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'influential'.
The writing system of ancient Sumer is called cuneiform, which means "wedge-shaped".
The rich resources of the land led to massive population growth and the eventual capitalization of agriculture.
Much of Clausewitz's work concerns itself not with campaigns and battles themselves, but rather with the factors that lead to them, the nature of war itself, and those things he felt were most important regarding it: citizens' obligation to serve their governments
There are also constraints on the freedom of autonomous individuals to capitalize their talents.
The American and French revolutions had a great effect on the way later nineteenth century European monarchies capitalised on their middle classes.
In the fourteenth century Italy was fragmented into many small states that could not capitalise on the trading opportunities of the Mediterranean.
But conservative politicians, businessmen and factory owners had no wish to capitalise on this efficiency by encouraging an industrial work force to arise that might challenge their power.
"We have to find out what the symptoms of prostate cancer are," Blaine said.
The term 'capitalism' was first used in the nineteenth century to describe the economic system that occurred primarily in the northern part of Europe.
The world's biggest companies have no choice but to capitalise on making a green product.
The industrial capitalists understood that if they wanted to see the greatest profit, they must first see lower wages.
"The most infamous crimes during the French Revolution were carried out in an attempt to capitalise on the volatile mix of fear and anger created by these events.
The first phase, from 1871 to 1900, was a period of rapid growth and capitalise on the Industrial Revolution. By the end of this period, mass production methods had been adopted in the United States and other countries.
The real struggle for the creation of a communist state, which is necessary for the transition from socialism to communism, can only succeed if the working class has seized power and capital in its country by means of a revolution.
The most important thing is that we must capitalise on our initial success.
Q: How does a person capitalise on this success?
The Normans had an excellent system of law, and so were able to capitalise on their conquests.
Cats do not have sweat glands over most of their bodies, but areas like the lips, nose, ears and paws are furry and help to capitalise on the cat's body heat through radiating.
One advantage of this plan was that it would enable countries to compete on the world market by lowering their production costs by paying their workers less.
Within the hierarchical relationships of capitalism, the government and employers are able to capitalize on human desire for autonomy and power.
However, the Church continued to do this for all texts written in Greek. They capitalized appropriate words, and used periods at the ends of sentences.
It is the gap between what a bank lends in a certain country and that country's GDP, which has been described as laying the foundations for a potential financial crisis if it is too wide.
The location of the Suez Canal, which allowed passage between the Indian Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea, was a great help to the English and French efforts to capitalise on their trade dominance.
There are many areas in which the government should continue to play a strong role, such as in education and in the maintenance of infrastructure (roads, bridges, freeways, dams), while at the same time some of these areas require privatization.
To date, no one has been able to capitalise on their success.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'idiom'.
During the eighteenth century, capitalism meant using free enterprise and people's desire to better themselves to create wealth.
The correct answer is: 'The relationship between the Church and the self-governing municipalities of the Protestant Reformation had a great impact on how people viewed capital punishment in Europe.
The difference emphasized the need for a strong leader to capitalise on this advantage while it lasted.
The colonizing powers of the world had, in a fit of absent-mindedness and missed chances, failed to capitalise on their massive technological advantage.
The Industrial Revolution saw the western world capitalize on advances in science and technology to experience an economic boom of unparalleled proportions.
It was only Elizabeth who could capitalise on his disappearance to help the Dornan Church.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'impartial'.
The early imperials were very good at capitalizing on the fear that their subjects had of them.
The 19th-century German philosopher Karl Marx greatly admired the industrial revolution. He believed it would lead to a communist society, in which all the means of production were owned in common.
The Quakers, or the Society of Friends, originated in the 17th century and have never had a formal set of beliefs or rules – they are quite unlike the Mormons who developed their own rules to live by and capitalized on their religion.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'initiate'.
Mr. Gates' decision to drop out of college in order to capitalise on the nascent market for personal computers turned him into one of the world's richest men.
The long battle to control the capital was a key part of the war.
They wanted to ensure that the banks would be able to capitalise on the trend of using checks to purchase items.
However, if more energy-efficient technology is developed in a given region, that excess capital will tend to flow into other regions.
The third goal of the ‘Master Plan' was to make people believe that the war against the Jews was one of self-defence: the Jews were planning to take over Germany; they were all potential enemies who had to be
Keynes believed that this "animal spirits" would lead businessmen to make wrong decisions in optimistic times and too many bets when profit seemed easy. They would then have to fire workers or go bankrupt in the slump periods after over-investment periods.
The idea of a Flying Dutchman continues to capitalise on popular culture.
It's a good idea to start a business focusing on human resources, which will capitalise on the strategies that apply to modern life.
The first factories to be built and used in the United States mainly used waterpower to drive their machinery.
While the rich countries will probably be able to afford to protect their coastlines and still maintain a high standard of living, many of the world's poorest people who live in coastal regions will find it hard to capitalise on this new industry.
The government of the Republic has been trying to capitalise on the success of its national football team in the recent world championships.
Theorists have suggested that the First World War was a crucial turning point in the decline of European dominance in world affairs, and a key factor in the acceleration of the rise of the new powers, particularly the United States.
With the development of state-run mental asylums, the family had to capitalise the risk of demonstrating their love by personal involvement, lest they appear uncaring.
Basically, they were determined to find out how their competitors were capitalising on the boom in sales of mobile phones.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aim'.
The conflict had been caused by the need to capitalise on the trade with West Africa.
In terms of finance and assets, however, the company benefits from the fact that it has managed to capitalise on the increasing demand for more sophisticated computer technology.
The small band of religious dissidents at Zurich, like Protestants throughout Europe at the time, were struggling to survive amidst ongoing religious strife and persecution.
The Dutch East India Company was a company that owned several other companies that traded mostly in the Far East.
The English Civil War was a conflict that pitted King vs. Parliament, but Oliver Cromwell's role proved decisive. He was able to capitalise on the national disquiet caused by Charles I's heavy-handed rule to engineer a military coup.
The French and Indian War was followed by a period of relative peace known as the "Pax Britannica," British Peace.
In the early twentieth century, the first motor cars started to capitalise on the advances in road and bridge building.
It was the first time that the government had officially capitalized on the process of privatization that had already been occurring for a number of years.
The decline in the manufacturing industries led to a drop in investment and capitalise on new technology.
The government should first of all decide what is the role of the military in this new security policy.
Although he is not aware of it, these feelings are the beginning of an urge to capitalise on his advantages while most of his rivals are still struggling.
In pursuit of their religious vision, the Puritans came to America to capitalize upon religious liberty while still maintaining strict Christian morality.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'basis'.
In the Victorian era in the 19th century, Great Britain had a great deal of success in building up its industry which in turn helped to capitalise on its worldwide colonial possessions.
The main purpose of the monarchs and rulers of the states involved in the War of the Spanish Succession was to capitalise on the decline of the Spanish Empire.
Monks wrote a large amount of the literature from that time, and used their skills in capitalization
The expansion of the Grand Alliance was capitalized on by many nation states to gain more land.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'marginalized'.
During the industrial revolution, Britain capitalized on the invention of new machinery that made manufacturing items faster and cheaper
In 1887 he moved to the United States, where he believed that free market competition and the absence of a rigid class system offered the best chance for a person to capitalise on his talents.
Until the end of his life, in 1883, Marx wanted to write more about capitalism but was unable to finish another book.
Because the Hapsburg government was unable to capitalise on the advantages of its numbers, the war became a long, drawn-out affair that produced indecisive results.
Professor: If one reads this article not as a contribution to knowledge but as an attempt by a group of intellectuals to 'capitalize' upon a great national calamity, then it is easy to understand why the The National Guard's response was
Several wealthy states did not wish to capitalise on the changes created by the reformation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intricacies'.
In the 18th century, the British began to colonize Australia. They capitalized on the skills of the convicts they sent there, by making them work on building projects for free, such as buildings and roads.
The most difficult part of the company's business plan to capitalise was the Internet sales.
‘The decision to move the capital from Musselburgh to Edinburgh was a good one', he wrote.
In the 19th century, the idea of "Manifest Destiny" capitalized on patriotic feelings.
In fact, by the 1890s there were signs that the railway companies might even be able to capitalise on their new means of transport - instead of being social and political catalysts for change.
The correct title of Heidegger's book is Being and Time
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'liberation'.
In the early stages of the French Revolution, the members of the Third Estate realized that they needed to capitalise on their advantage while they had it.
The states of the time could not capitalise on the demands of the people, because their traditions were reactionary and illiberal.
The United States did not significantly capitalise on the opportunity to use its resources to become a manufacturing giant in the nineteenth century.
He was one of the first businessmen to realise the importance of branding and the benefits of incentives and capitalising on fads.


#catalyst

Professor:The fall of the Berlin wall in 1989 has been hailed as a spectacular triumph for a number of causes: freedom, democracy, the power of non-violent resistance...
However, the artist is a romantic figure to whom we turn for inspiration and creativity.
The three volumes of Capital were written in the midst of political crisis and published when Marx was seventy-five, shortly after the defeat of the Paris Commune; they are a theoretical masterpiece, but also the product of intense political engagement and debate.
The assassination of Franz Ferdinand was a catalyst for the outbreak of World War I.
The Protestant Reformation was a religious movement that caused an angry and rebellious German priest by the name of Martin Luther to nail a list of gripes, or complaints, to the door of a Church in Germany called the "95 Theses".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'esoteric'.
However, it probably took a catalyst to ignite the sparks of revolution.
The Group of 7 is often referred to as a forum, but in fact it's a very influential international economic cabal that has the power to define and set the pace for global politics and economics.
The war had the effect of acting as a catalyst for many different areas of change.
The meeting between the two leaders may prove to be a catalyst for peace negotiations.
However, it is thought that the Black Plague was the catalyst that began the steady breakdown of Feudalism.
The early European politicians were more a catalyst for the changes rather than the causes of those changes.
The invention of the printing press was a catalyst for the Reformation, because it allowed the ideas of people such as Martin Luther to reach a much larger audience.
Nicaragua's economy is one of the poorest in the Western Hemisphere and a major reason is its dependence on its major export: coffee.
The protests ultimately served as a catalyst for far-reaching political change.
The atmosphere created by these new ideas served as a catalyst for the period of intellectual brilliance that was seventeenth-century England.
It was considered that the demise of the otter population had been a major catalyst for the destruction of kelp beds.
However, English Puritans disliked the semi-Catholic practices of the Church of England and they wanted simpler service with no decorations or ritual. So in 1604 they left the Church and set up their own 'protest'.
When the ban on crude oil exports was lifted last year, proponents asserted that the move would decrease prices as well as provide a catalyst for creating alternative energy sources.
The duke's execution was a catalyst, setting off the series of events that made up the French Revolution.
The only real evidence of a catalyst effect, as the economists put it, was that the number of female smokers increased by fifty percent in a single year.
Tragically, it wasn't until the threat of destruction became imminent that the Great Alliance finally had a chance to prove its worth, becoming in the process the only thing standing between victory and annihilation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aid'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'significance'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'jolt'.
Furthermore, the spread of printed word became an important catalyst for the spread of the Renaissance from Italy to northern Europe.
The assassination of the Austrian heir was a catalyst for war.
The catalyst for the rapid development of the Royal Navy was the need to protect and expand Britain's colonies.
The two events acted as a catalyst for a protest that had already been simmering below the surface.
The paintings' content was not the catalyst for change; they were merely a reflection of the changes that were already taking place in the society.
The development of the market economy was a vital catalyst in pushing forward the ideas that eventually became known as conservatism.
The discovery of the role of hormones and enzyme catalysts, which speed up chemical processes, in the body and the way drugs affect them have meant that modern drug therapies are often extremely effective.
The civil rights movement was very much a catalyst for the anti-war movement in the United States, just as the anti-war movement was a catalyst for the civil rights movement.
The same discovery that lead to the development of the internet, and the existence of this chatbot.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "inorganic".
Most people say that Johnson's support for the American colonists was a catalyst for the revolution, but in reality it was only one of many events that caused tension between England and its settlers.
Carbon dioxide is not just an end product of fuel combustion; it is also a catalyst for the reaction and can increase its rate.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Hapsburg'.
Friedrich Engels' 'The Condition of the Working Class in England' was a catalyst for the idea that capitalism made people's live
The government's introduction of the National Health Service Act 1946, was a catalyst for the wave of strikes that followed.
The short ten-year war proved to be a decisive catalyst in the collapse of colonialism in Africa.
The Black Death, which killed a large portion of the world's population at the time, reduced the labor supply and increased wages for those who were left, acting as a catalyst for the Peasants' Revolt in 1381.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideology'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'persecution'.
"His foreign policy of Bismarck was a catalyst which unified Germany and allowed him to achieve his goals".
The Black Plague is thought to have been a catalyst for this change in attitudes towards death.
The optimistic atmosphere in the United States during the Roaring Twenties was a catalyst for much of this artistic innovation.
The Parliament refused to act as a catalyst for reform.
In a general sense, a catalyst is something which starts a process without being affected much itself.
The small bands of hunters and gatherers were the catalyst that caused modern humans to begin settling in one place and developing into civilized humans.
Professor: The Black Death had a lot of long-term effects on medieval society. It killed a large part of the population, leaving vast areas of land deserted.
Problems with paternity tests as a catalyst for the inception of the new genetic age
The Battle of the Nile was a major naval battle of the French Revolutionary Wars, in which a British fleet under Admiral Horatio Nelson defeated a larger French fleet anchored in the
However, he has been able to bring about a limited reconciliation with the benefit of his family being recognized as their Viking ancestors from centuries ago, not least because of the role he played as an intellectual catalyst at the time.
The horrific violence of the terrorists was a catalyst for further violence and saw casualties rise drastically.
The shortage provided the catalyst for the Irish rebellion against English rule in 1919, leading to the formation of the Irish Free State in 1922.
The former triggered a chemical process in the atmosphere that turned it into a 'greenhouse' gas, which trapped heat from the sun and triggered global warming.
The assassination of the Russian reformer was the catalyst for a revolution that changed Russia forever.
It was the catalyst for a new era of political and industrial development in Europe, which would eventually spread to the rest of the world.
The final point at which the scales might have tipped in favor of war was when French President Charles de Gaulle pulled France out of NORAD, the North American Air Defense agreement.
I had not been prepared for the shock of seeing the quiet, unassuming, though bearded and robed figure photoed amid the fawning courtiers of some Eastern prince... a transitory crown...
In the third type of transition, a catalyst, or something that causes change to occur, is necessary. An example of this was the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
The rise of the middle class in Europe was largely a result of the cataclysmic Thirty Years War.
The Green Revolution of the 1960s was a catalyst for great social and economic change in Mexico.
The discovery of the New World was a catalyst for the age of exploration.
Our ancestors developed the capacity for foresight, or forward planning, which among other things enables us to be more efficient predators.
The discovery of the atom led to the building up of yet another industry, that of nuclear energy. Enormous factories were built in which to produce nuclear power reactors.
The discovery of a new compound that could remove an unwanted tree species in national forests was a catalyst in the development of the forestry industry.
Tensions were rising in Europe as nationalism became increasingly popular and a catalyst for the collapse of the old order.
The idea that a catalyst had helped our ancestors develop language quickly and dramatically was first put forward by the archaeologist Calvin in the story "Ruby".
They were able to react quickly to changing situations, a feature that turns out to be a key survival catalyst in a dynamic situation.
The collapse of the Soviet state, which had proved such a potent catalyst for change in Yugoslavia, was itself changing.
The communist manifesto was a catalyst for post World War I revolutions.
The Partition of Ireland in 1921 was a catalyst for the decline in popularity of the Home Rule Party.
Independent Ireland was also greatly affected by its geography, the history of British involvement in Ireland, and the country's relationship with the United Kingdom.
The invention of the cotton gin was a catalyst for the industrial revolution.
The Black Death was a catalyst for major changes in the medieval social structure.
Life on earth, it got to be what it is today mainly because of the massive amounts of oxygen that developed in the atmosphere and oceans.
Empedocles was the first to propose that everything was made from water, and his writings were a catalyst for future chemical research.
The peace agreement was a catalyst for the movement.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "genealogy".
Many state that Areopagus Council was the most important institution in creating an identity for an aspiring nation that had little else except ancient religion and tradition.
The assassination of Archduke Ferdinand was the catalyst that led to the First World War.
Catalysts are substances that speed up the rate of a chemical reaction without themselves being used up in the process.
The Black Death epidemic of 1348, which swept through Asia and then Europe, killed so many people that it temporarily halted the global spread of
However, it can be hard to determine which came first in this process: the catalyst or the chemical reaction.
The peasants' frustration with their oppression of the rich landowners was the catalyst for the Peasants' Revolt in 1381.
The Cistercian order in medieval Europe played a catalyst role in promoting agriculture.
The new nation was immediately a catalyst for many revolutions.
One small catalyst for this rapid spread of ideas was the internet, which made information sharing much easier.
The assassination of Franz Ferdinand is a watershed in modern history, as it is sometimes considered to be the catalyst for the First World War.
The rise of the cities and the birth of a middle class were the main factors in starting the American war of independence. One could even go beyond that to say that the very existence of the middle class was the catalyst for war.
The new technologies of the television, hi-fi and video player provided the final catalyst for Radio Rentals to become a nationwide chain.
During the war, much of the land was devastated and its inhabitants were killed or starved. This led to a massive drop in population.
The Black Plague was a catalyst for more government control in the ruined Italy.
The assassination of Franz Fraklin was one of the key influences on the start of the First World War.
The Catholic Church became more of an ethical and moral guide for people rather than a political or temporal power, which changed the nature of the society.
The discovery of penicillin in the 1920s was a catalyst for the development of antibiotics.
Second only to the War of the Roses, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria is often cited as a catalyst for the outbreak of World War I.
The 1929 Wall Street stock market crash is thought to have been a catalyst for what came to be known as the Great Depression.


#cause

Of the three causes of the French Revolution, the most important was social, followed by political, and then economic.
The Hundred Years' War was fought between England and France for control of the throne of France.
Start of the War
The cause of the United States Civil War is an issue over which there has been much controversy.
The main causes of the French Revolution were the political structure of France, in particular the fact that it was an absolute monarchy and the increasing reliance on taxes.
One infamous example of mass hysteria was the case of the screaming boy in Middlesex in 1706.
There is disagreement among historians about the causes of the Civil War.
However, other researchers have found that women's immune systems don't cause the phenomenon.
The main cause of the failure of the First Crusade was the attempt to take on an entrenched Islamic power.
The main cause of the First World War was the rivalry between the two major powers in Europe, Germany and England.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'nature'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'history'.
The main cause of the riots was the poverty caused by unemployment.
These components can be broken down into three broad causes: the impact of humans themselves, the impact of population growth and the impact of extreme weather conditions.
Professor: The so-called 'lost colony', in what is now North Carolina, was founded by the British near Roanoke Island in 1587.
Some have suggested the reason why agriculture was originally developed in these regions was due to the presence of certain soil bacteria or an abundance of a particular plant.
The cause of the French Revolution is generally stated to be the oppressive and outdated system of rules and regulations that governed contemporary French society
Most historians agree that the most significant cause for the fall of the Roman Empire was a Germanic people called the Goths.
The Church needed to find a new way to maintain popularity within the urban areas of Europe; going back to Constantine's tactic of combining religious propaganda and government, it was able to achieve its goal.
The American Civil War is considered the last cause of the century.
The causes of World War One are complex and hotly debated to this day.
Even the most common and familiar words can be made more powerful when they are used in sentences.
The cause of the epidemic had not yet been determined.
The most immediate cause of the French Revolution was the lack of food in France during the late eighteenth century, a result of poor weather and harvest.
The trial of Maurice Papon was an attempt to come to terms with events that occurred mainly in 1942 during World War II.
The Hundred Years' War caused political instability between the English and the French.
The cause of the fall of the temple is not really known, but archaeologists have found evidence of fires and explosions at its base.
The cause for this sudden body growth is unknown.
The main reason why many people decided to join the army was because they were slapped with heavy taxes and did not have many other career opportunities.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cause'.
Professor: The main cause of World War I was the buildup of intense rivalries and competition for power and influence.
The cause of the falling out was a trivial argument over how to divide up the spoils of their latest robbery.
Unfortunately, in the late 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, the eugenics movement became increasingly popular.
However, the most likely cause of this shift in power from the nobility to the commoners appears to be economic.
Mistakes were often made when determining the cause of death.
Professor: The most obvious cause of the war was a rise in trade restrictions among the nations of Europe.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'revolution'.
The government's announcement of radical welfare reforms in the mid-nineties caused increasing poverty in the country.
Genetically, the difference between a panda and a chimpanzee is less than the difference between a human and a chimpanzee
Cause of death was strangulation.
However, a second theory held that syphilis was the result of European explorers bringing the disease from America to Europe.
The tidal wave that struck South East Asia on Christmas Day was caused by an underwater earthquake in the Indian Ocean, off the coast of Indonesia.
The cause of the French Revolution was basically a combination of increasingly bad conditions in France, the ideas of the Enlightenment and the reckless actions of the king.
The cause of the war was, however, the assassination of the Archduke of Austria in June 1914.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'result'.
The assassination of Franz Ferdinand has been described by several historians as the 'straw that broke the camel's back'; the event that directly caused the First World War, which led to unimagined consequences.
You ask the professor for sentence containing 'popular'
However, it is important to note that fossil evidence shows that the climate in Africa is today substantially different from the climate of the Pleistocene period. While it was much cooler then, it was nevertheless much warmer than it is now.
Even if one grants that the above actions caused the War of the Roses, we are still left with the question of what caused these events.
The causes of the French Revolution are complex, arising as they did from a mixture of factors including popular, elite and institutionalised grievances.
Although ancient Roman authors wrote about the presence of a Christian sect in first-century Rome, the religion's presence remained illegal along with all other religions until the Edict of Toleration by Galerius legalized it in 311.
The September 11 attacks had a major effect on the course of world history.
The cause of the French Revolution, as defined by Thomas Paine, is
The factors that caused the fall of the Roman Empire are still intensely debated by historians.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'other'.
stabbed him to death.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'propose'.
The War of the Roses was a 15th-century civil war fought primarily in England between the House of Lancaster and the House of York, Irish and Scottish connections notwithstanding.
The causes of the French Revolution are debated by historians and range from economic factors to Enlightenment ideals.
The Great Plague of London, which killed an estimated 100,000 people, was the last great outbreak of the plague to strike England.
But the city's economic basis is gambling, which causes many social problems.
I'm not causing trouble, officer. It's just that some of us work at a bakery and the smell of the bread is making me hungry.
The cause of the Civil War was slavery, an issue that had existed within the United States since its formation and which threatened to split the nation.
They believed that the cause of cancer might be understood by studying viruses, which are much smaller and simpler than human cells and can therefore be studied in much greater detail.
The most widely accepted theory concerning the collapse of the Roman Empire in the West is that it was ultimately caused by its failure to adapt to new barbarian assaults.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'origin'.
The English Civil War took place between the years of 1640 and 1660 and was the result of a struggle concerning control of the Kingdom of England.
The series of battles that took place at the beginning of World War I had an effect on all of the main participants, but probably the least effect on Great Britain, since their only involvement was sending the British Expeditionary Force to France in 1914.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "contract".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'however'.
The main cause of the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand was his assassination.
The closing down of the gugg mines, along with deforestation of the mountains, caused an influx of desperate and poverty-stricken men to the previously isolated region.
Professor: A main factor in the discontent of the peasants was the heavy tax burden put upon them by the monarchy.
The reasons why the First World War occurred have been much debated, and several scenarios have been suggested as to their cause.
The main cause of the war was the rising power of Prussia.
The Black Death swept into Europe like a supernatural force, causing fear and havoc as it wiped out entire villages.
However, the most likely cause of the extinction was due to changes in climate which never permitted them to adapt.
The immediate cause of the French Revolution was the attempt by King Louis XVI to cancel the tax privileges of the clergy and the aristocracy.
Traditionally, scientists believed that environmental influences were the main cause of cancer.
The Black Death of the 14th century, caused by the Bubonic plague, is still known today as a particularly deadly outbreak.
The "causes" of revolution are difficult to pinpoint, although there are several explanations for the French Revolution.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "causal".
Fair trade causes consumers to pay more, but producers get paid more for their goods.
A number of causes combined to bring about the French Revolution.
A dramatic increase in the number of women in the workforce during World War II is attributed to "forced mobilization of labor" caused by the decrease in men available for factory work.
AIDS is caused by the HIV virus.
The cause of the First World War is typically thought to be the assassination of the Archduke of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in June 1914.
The flood of 1362 is thought to have been caused by an accumulation of ice in the northern hemisphere.
The most important cause of large-scale slavery in the Americas was the increase in demand for commodities such as tobacco, rice and sugar.
Professor: The cause of the civil war on the opposite side was primarily a difference in religion.
The main cause of the decline in importance of the aristocracy during the twentieth century was that most of them went bankrupt.
In American history the issue of slavery caused several bloody wars, the American Civil War being the most notorious.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reflect".
The most convincing scientific theories are those that explain a cause, or set of causes, that are capable of producing the effect in question.
The immunization controversy was focused on allegedly contaminated measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, which the medical establishment claimed caused autism and which was blamed in the wake of a 1989 study by British doctor Andrew Wakefield.
Climate change, caused by the catastrophic damage humans have inflicted on the environment in recent decades, has been more devastating to developing countries than to those already highly developed.
The cause of his death was a bullet wound to the heart.
Professor: The collapse of the Mayan civilization is still not fully understood, however archeological evidence strongly suggests that it was the result of both internal strife and external attacks.
One of the main causes of the French Revolution was the food crisis of 1792, in which thousands of citizens in France were dying of starvation due to poor conditions of crops.
Professor: The main cause of the Reformation was the monastic view that members of the Church were incapable of gaining forgiveness for their sins without the intercession of the Church, which they needed to fund and keep running.
The most obvious cause of the war was the assassination of the Austrian Archduke.


#characterise

Democracy was first characterised in ancient Athens, where all male citizens could vote and play a role in the running of their city state.
The answer to the question of why there was so little social unrest during this time, despite the extent of poverty, is that people characterised their situation in terms of an expectation of success rather than the pity of failure.
Both governments have been criticised for not doing enough to characterise and deal with the threat of climate change.
It is best to characterise the role of the Church in the medieval period as one of attempting to preserve what it saw as the moral fabric of society.
The word 'amazing' cannot really characterise how I feel about this!
Ever since the medieval period, the people of western Europe had been characterised as being a part of Christendom which was in essence a unified religious, social and cultural community.
The Irish were often stereotyped as lazy and dirty, and many Americans characterised the Irish as too slow to assimilate into American society.
However, biologists have a much harder time characterizing the existence or activities of anything that hasn't been preserved in the fossil record.
In the late eighteenth century the way English towns and cities were characterised had started to drastically change.
The protest march yesterday was a perfect example of a phenomenon that is unique to the twenty-first century: the mass protest.
The legacy of the New Imperialism era was that this period could be best characterized as an era of European dominance in which Western European culture and expansion played a major role.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'distinctive'.
Wittgenstein often referred to his linguistic philosophy as simply an attempt to characterize the structures inherent in language itself.
The plan backfired, and his soldiers began to characterise him as an inexperienced coward.
The name of the campaign took on a life of its own, however, and has since characterized most of American's views on the war.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'prominent'.
Professor: The popular historian Alexander Demandt has described the Thirty Years' War as one of history's forgotten conflicts.
In the 1920s, the German sculptor and artist Käthe Kollwitz used a photograph of her husband to characterise her own feelings of loss and mourning.
The war was only finally ended by a treaty which effectively characterised Bosnia and Herzegovina as a viceroyalty of the Ottoman Empire.
And one of the problems I have is to characterise people without giving them too much individuality.
In the middle years of his reign, the king's foreign policy involved an ongoing quest to characterise himself as the rightful head of the church throughout his realms.
That the work of a Dutch artist should characteristically be so well-ordered and balanced.
Many Christians found the characterization of God in terms of a right of might disturbingly familiar.
He felt that the study of law should be reorganised to enable students to characterise legal problems more clearly and coherently.
But the first step is to characterise events which could potentially disrupt the system, particularly those which would cause widespread harm, and try to assess their likelihood.
The groups tried to characterise their opponents as not being true representatives of the working class.
It is one of the many ironies of history that Hitler characterised the Soviet soldiers as bestial, when it was the Germans who engaged in barbarity during their invasion of Russia.
Constantin Stanislavski was a Russian acting theorist who characterised him as intepretation of the text .
The archaeal characterization of the two species obeyed the same rules as for the bacteria.
The history of the 20th century has often been characterized as an endless series of conflicts ending finally in the Cold War.
It was the aim of Mussolini to characterise Italy as a highly authoritative, Fascist state where he had total control.
However, the view of a peasant-based revolution was criticised by some Marxist historians who felt it was too favourable to the peasants and did not sufficiently characterise the revolution as a whole.
The philosopher Bertrand Russell wrote about society in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries to characterise his views on humanity.
The Norman Conquest of England, which occurred in 1066, was a defining moment in the history of Anglo-Saxon Britain. It is traditionally characterised as an invasion by battle-hardened Norman knights.
The great irony about the criticism of capitalism by these intellectuals is that they were able to characterise the system and its problems possession only by being beneficiaries of it.
The National Front has been criticised for characterizing minorities as a drain on resources and of stirring up racial conflict
The history of women's role in the U.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "profound".
During the 1952 election, Eisenhower's opponent Adlai Stevenson criticized him for not doing enough to criticize McCarthyism, but Eisenhower refused to characterise his policies as ‘anti-McCarthy'.
The new opera "Mrs. Reynolds", which opens at the National Theater next month, has been hard to characterize.
One of the most important factors characterizing European history from the 16th to the 18th century is the rise of individual nation-states.
Many psychologists have tried to characterize the creative personality.
Future historians will characterise the twentieth century as one of the most important in the history of mankind.
Technically, all statements in science are hypotheses, but scientists typically refer to a hypothesis after it's been confirmed by experiment as a theory.
Cicero, an ancient Roman statesman and orator renowned for his intellectual talents, was a brilliant linguist who was able to characterise different languages by the sounds they used.
The main problem for the Church is not so much its wealth but its apparent determination to characterise Catholicism as a series of non-negotiable rules and beliefs.
At the time, the Bolsheviks were keen to characterise the war as a conflict between two groups of imperialist powers.
Disraeli is primarily remembered as the man who characterized the working class in England as "Lords of Nothing".
Unlike his brother, who's an engineer, my son has always characterised himself more as a man of ideas.
The writers of the Federalist papers effectively characterised the chaos and infighting of the pre-1776 status quo to convince the citizens of New York to join the Union.
The very earliest inhabitants of the British isles, the people that characterise prehistoric Britain, hunted animals and foraged for food but didn't settle in one place and didn't farm.
Due to the expansion in trade and the creation of fast transport systems, such as trains, travel became easier than at any other time in history and as a result, our characterise view of the world changed.
The film doesn't really attempt to characterise these people in depth; instead, it serves as a vehicle to move the plot along.
They characterized the struggle between clergy and monarchy as having begun after the clergy had grown too interested in worldly matters, including taxation, something for which there was no precedent in Church history.
The director's early films characterized the stereotype of the macho American man: they were violent, self-centered and chauvinistic.
The Earl of Oxford was the man who characterised Queen Elizabeth as a 'peculiar' Queen in his writings.
The neo-Gothic style can be characterised by its pointed arches and intricate patterns.
The year 1917 was a time of 'character building' for Harvey.
The steam engine had not been developed far enough to characterise the industrial revolution.
Most politicians agreed that military action should be direct and rapid, characterised by shock and awe, and designed to expel the Iraqi military from Kuwait
Socialists have traditionally been opposed to colonialism, and have often characterized it as a form of imperialism, which they generally oppose.
The French monarchy of the ancien regime characterised itself as a personification of the State.
The New Urbanists characterise themselves as pragmatic futurists.
The period from 1920 to 1929 is often characterised as a time of relative economic prosperity and stability.
The left was not able to characterise the new candidate as a war monger or hawk, and so were defeated.
While the character of Tom Joad in John Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath is fictional, the plight of impoverished farmers during the Great Depression he personifies is not.
The central figure in German political life at that time was Otto von Bismarck. He was responsible for the unification of Germany, in which he was largely successful.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'characterise'.
Classical economists, and most notably Adam Smith and David Ricardo, characterised the factories of their time as "dark, satanic mills" where workers were little more than appendages of the machinery.
The chateau was surrounded by formal gardens that characteristically had parterres.
The first labor unions in the United States were formed by factory workers and characterized by confrontational tactics with management.
The student leader, Matthew Godwin, dismissed the attack as "character building" and said the university should be concentrating on academic matters.
After the French occupation of Prussia in 1806, she characterised Napoleon as a barbaric Attila and herself as the virtuous Semiramis.
Traditionally, many 18th-century authors characterised the Middle Ages as a time of tyranny, ignorance and superstition.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'insight'.
Carpentier was a romantic, and happy to characterise his fellow citizens as noble savages living in harmony with the bountiful nature around them.
A major operation on the neural pathways to the visual cortex would allow blind people to be able to see by wearing glasses with an inbuilt computer and a small camera. This would characterise the quality of experience that the blind were able to get.
The treaty failed to characterise a border between the two zones and this later led to conflict.
I have been characterised as a pessimist, in the sense that I see our future as dark.
A series of assassinations characterised by intimidation were carried out on both sides.
In the poem, the speaker describes this feeling by using the term "Quelle tristesse", which can most charitably be translated as a combination of boredom and depression.
The last person to attempt a journey by land from Spain to China was the Italian adventurer Antonio Pigafetta who travelled with Ferdinand Magellan's expedition.
The twentieth century, where two world wars characterised the beginning and the end, leaving a trail of death and destruction and a scarred planet.
Classical economists sought to characterise labour as a commodity, that is, something which has an inherent exchange value.
The two most important amendments characterize the American political system today:
The first problem the Nazis faced was that they needed to characterise their victim groups as separate and inferior.
Shakespeare's plays can be characterized as an attempt to reinforce social values and to some extent this was also the purpose of Elizabethan drama.
The World Bank has been accused of characterising the nations who seek loans from it as "poor"


#circumspect

The captain of the QE2 was forced to be particularly circumspect in his behaviour for the rest of the voyage.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'imperative'.
The Prime Minister, a cautious man, waited several days before making the final decision to send in troops.
The most circumspect of the men admitted they were in the pay of the police.
‘Certainly, sir,' I said, trying to be as circumspect as possible.
While the population of England was generally satisfied with the ban on monarchs, many were wary of more popular and more powerful Parliament.
The rest of the night was spent in a more lighthearted manner and, although the conversation still remained serious and full of worry, the atmosphere became more light-hearted and circumspect.
The former leader is always more circumspect in what he says, as he doesn't want any trouble.
He was too circumspect to tell the emperor that he was planning a coup.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'hypothesis'.
We will have to be very circumspect in our conversation with him or he may not cooperate.
The issue of human rights has long been considered circumspect by the younger members of the colony.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conjecture'.
Bertrand Russell's approach to peace was far more circumspect.
Stepping onto the tracks in front of an oncoming train was a very circumspect way of committing suicide, if you were looking to escape detection.
The anarchists, however, protested in a completely law-abiding manner, being excessively cautious and circumspect.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'pursue'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'sabotage'.
Professor: You never give up, do you? Fine.
Pepys, with his usual circumspection, thought it "a silly, childish business."
In fact, the evidence from the excavation was so ambiguous that he had been very circumspect in making claims for the site.
Haydn's knowledge of the world was increased by his years of travel, and this is part of the fascination in his later operas: their cunning mixture of simplicity and calculation, of Haydn's own natural genius and a circumspect care for
Kerenyi is always careful to maintain that there are forces at work in interpretation that are beyond the power of anyone, including himself, to circumscribe and contain within a simple theory.
A heated debate in the public media over the possible motives and causes of a terrorist attack often leads to the issue becoming far more
Liking the nice weather now and being circumspect about the future was a useful combination.
It is highly unlikely that she would have wanted me to give away all her secrets, so perhaps it is just as well that I was so circumspect at the time.
Sophisticated methods of assassination are relatively rare because most people aren't as circumspect
We should be more circumspect in the future and avoid getting involved in other people's wars.
As parents we have to be circumspect in our use of television and movies as babysitters.
The greatest statesman of the early eighteenth century, William
A more circumspect use of language is necessary in the presence of ladies.
For all the candor and apparent danger, Mr. Melinger was very circumspect about many things.
He was a cautious and circumspect man who never took unnecessary risks.
Horns: The participants display a marked degree of circumspection.
Newcombe looked at Jennifer with a mixture of wonder and circumspection.
I doubt if even the most circumspect of us can be sure how we might act in a situation until we find ourselves in it.
But Germanicus took a more circumspect approach.
He was a very circumspect man, though prone to becoming unnecessarily offensive when he disagreed with someone.
The Latin words that the Romans used for looking and appearing cognate to the words reflected in the modern English circumspect and imperceptible
We were all made very circumspect by this sudden and alarming announcement.
Ludwig was grateful that he had been so circumspect in advising him to give up his plans.
One has to be very circumspect about the kind of information one gives out,especially over the internet.
His advisers were understandably cautious and circumspect, especially since Mr. Bush was not personally close to any of them.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'initiative'.
One of the major differences between old Russia and new China was in their attitude to take initiative.
He was so old that he could remember when the income tax had been introduced, but he was too circumspect to ever make a remark about it.
The politicians were very circumspect in their criticism of the military before and during the war, and they avoided criticizing the generals for their failure.
They (Zelda and F. Scott Fitzgerald) were surprisingly circumspect given the risky situation, but then turned back to each other and embraced passionately.
Treaties are not always adhered to and in fact some observers have suggested that our science and technology have progressed to the point where we should be more circumspect in planning contact with extraterrestrials
You show no signs of deceit or inaccuracy, and if anything your answers have been too cautious, giving the impression that you are being circumspect.
His policies were often too radical for the rich merchants of Holland, cautious and circumspect as they were.
For a couple weeks, I was incredibly circumspect about everything.
The appeals to conservative voters were obviously intended to maintain their support, but his attacks on the opposition imply a certain degree of desperation. His calls for action were obviously an attempt to remain circumspect and keep his supporters enthusiastic.
In their efforts to maintain order, the government security forces have been often been accused of being overzealous, bureaucratic, and at times even unnecessarily cruel or merciless.
Heartless? Perhaps you knew some of those children, young man. These are the kindest, sweetest children you could ever know. And they're my grandchildren, whom I love very much.
The most popular beaches are the most circumspect.
It would be foolish to disregard formality, but less cautious visitors should also take care to maintain their circumspect behavior when in the presence of their hosts.
One reading of the work is that it is a cautionary tale about excessive pride and how it can lead to a person's downfall, but in a more general sense it's also a circumspect warning against approaching or contacting extraterrestrials.
Hence, the population explosion in the Third World is going to continue, and the resource battles will increase in intensity and scope. Even so, I am optimistic.
The Prime Minister was very circumspect in her comments on the new proposal.
Cicero, model of the independent Roman, never forgot the lessons of dependents: what he didn't want to see was the triumph of a stricter oligarchy, and this meant that he acted with great circumspection.
The politician's job is to discern what the public wants and then provide it, or at least appear to, which requires a considerable degree of circumspection.
As usual, he was speaking in a very circumspect way about the issue.
It would be wise to be more circumspect in the future.
Lenny decided to be more circumspect about these matters in the future.
The band of settlers made every effort to be circumspect, but the Indians soon realized that this was a large and permanent expedition.
Eliza didn't trust the directorate, but being an intelligent and circumspect girl, she knew it would be a mistake to leap into action without weighing up the pros and cons.
He was too circumspect to take either side in the religious arguments of his time.
When questioned, Beethoven's sister-in-law reported that he had seemed "more than usually
The new information that you have uncovered means that you must be more circumspect in how you proceed.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "significant".
When it was first proposed that there might be life on other planets, some people became so apprehensive that they refused to look through the telescope for fear of nalenging dire calamity.
The officials listened to the proposal, then approved it with some additions and circumspect, as the language of the referendum had to be carefully worded.
Indeed, I've always dealt with you in a completely open and honest manner, without ever trying to mislead or hide anything.
It was a bold move on the part of Henry, but he was always a very circumspect man.
Rebecca Johnson wasn't a particularly cautious person; she would just speak her mind, and if someone got offended, well that was their problem.
The word "circumspect" can be used to describe a pe
Later that evening, she told him the whole story, being careful not to mention the names of her husband's colleagues for fear of implicating the wrong person and being dismissed as a circumspect.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'prattle'.
It is certainly necessary to be circumspect with the information, but it is unlikely that anything will happen to you.
The country had to enact a new constitution, which the king was forced to sign and adopt, although his secret plan to become powerful again was still in play.
As the centre of medical knowledge and expertise moved from the monasteries to the universities, the role of the apothecary developed into that of a general practitioner, acting with circumspect and applying the remedies prescribed by university-trained physicians.
Professor: The biological information presents a problem that is both scientifically and morally complex, but the solution being proposed by the researchers is naïve and circumspect.
Before the Reform Acts of 1867 and 1884, British voters elected only one Member of Parliament (MP) to represent their whole county. Many of these "pocket" or "rotten"
He was too canny a businessman to make such a foolish mistake.
The eighteenth-century economists were most influential in advising governments to look to the longer term and to be more circumspect.
"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion"
The ruling classes in Britain were at first circumspect, even hostile, towards the new republic.
Oscar goes to the Dean's office where he is a lot more circumspect than he was with the professor, and when the Dean asks him why he wants to switch his field of specialization, he says that he no longer wishes to serve humanity
The government has been circumspect in the documents it allows to be released, for fear that details of colonial abuses of power and mismanagement will cause the country to look bad.
David was a very circumspect person and would weigh all the evidence before coming to a conclusion.
Nebudkhan is said to have listened to these songs over and over again when he was a young man, and they helped make him the cautious and circumspect ruler that he was.
It was only with the greatest circumspection, and after the most careful analysis of the situation, that I finally decided to call the police.
They were so circumspect about their research that the newspapers of the time didn't even know what the letters IW stood for.
The new human species were naturally curious and, being intelligent, they learned to use tools. They soon populated Africa and, eventually, the world--but the circumspect humans never returned to Ethiopia.
He was a deeply suspicious man, prone to look at people's motivations and attributing the worst possible implications to everything.
It was a difficult decision; Truman had to be extremely circumspect in his handling of the problem.
The most dangerous risk-takers are not the young and reckless, but older people who know that death is near no matter what they do.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'disseminate'.
He had to be circumspect in expressing his views on the government, but he did so in a roundabout way by making them into fiction.
It is important to be circumspect in writing an argumentative essay, because different readers will have different opinions and beliefs.
Thompson was more circumspect, suggesting that it would be necessary to consult with colleagues first, and only then give a decisive answer.
The pilot made us all sit together while he circled the area in the helicopter for over an hour. He was being very circumspect about flying low with his precious cargo.


#clandestine

He prefers to meet you secretly at night rather than openly during the day.
The shadowy organization carried out its activities in great secrecy and was very skilled at covering its tracks.
The meeting between the spies of two warring countries was a clandestine one.
The identity of the organization's leader is still unknown, but they are believed to meet secretly in South London.
The Crown recruited thousands of unemployed men into special "Slaughter Units" to secretly assassinate the leaders of the rebellion. This strategy had the desired effect of subduing the rebels without turning Irish public opinion against the Crown.
The printing press was invented in the 15th century, but it wasn't until the 16th century that it was used widely enough to affect education and intellectual life.
The Catholic Church's practice of performing marriage ceremonies while secretly recognizing the validity of common-law marriages became a source of conflict with the civil authorities.
The organization began with an illegal meeting organized by Mikhail in a private home in Tampere.
Professor: The rebels, who numbered about nine hundred, also had a threefold advantage in cannons over the government force of two hundred men and a smaller number of cannons, and they used this advantage to bombard the town's bull ring, where the
In the Soviet time the trip finished with a visit to a small museum that was really just a front for a KGB office where the guide would turn in the tourists' passport and everyone had to stay for hours to fill in some more forms.
Even if the Jacobins were able to subvert the other, less radical, revolutionary groups they would still need to deal with the problem of spies and "invalids"
She was an actress and had a son called Jean Felix Brutus Scudder Junior, who was killed in a air raid toward the end of the Second World War.
The main tactic of the organization was to engage in secret bombings of public places and assassinations of government officials.
As the woman grew older, her religious fervor grew stronger and she began organizing a small group of "Followers"
The underground Catholic Church in England carried on much as it had before the break with Rome, although its priests now operated clandestinely.
The reason for their meeting was so that the Protestants could organize a military clandestine unit to fight against the Catholics during the Thirty Years War.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "division".
During the Cold War, the KGB smuggled American baseball player, Grigoryan, from the Soviet Union in an icebox labeled 'Fish'.
The group meets every month to listen to revolutionary poetry and essays, and engage in discussions on the nature of government, and how to effect change without being arrested or executed for treason, which was illegal under the current interpretation of the law.
The defeated party would have to go underground or into clandestinity until public opinion shifted enough to ensure their safety.
Even in the years of the Cold War, when many feared another World War, no country ever made a nuclear missile secretly.
The military government had been in power for nearly two years, ever since the assassination of President Sank. Its existence was common knowledge, although it tried to keep a low profile.
"None of his predecessors, nor any of his successors, ever again enjoyed such a degree of clandenstine control over the world's most powerful nation.
The surveyor spies made their reports in the form of letters that they wrote in secret and then buried in a hole in the ground or dropped at the bottom of a river.
The French Resistance movements were involved in many clandestine activities during World War Two in an attempt to sabotage the implementation of the Nazis' policies.
The show was originally a clandestine operation, held away from the public at large.
Since the escapes of 1876, Alcatraz has always been used to hold America's most dangerous prisoners - political dissidents as well as criminals.
Clandestine means relating to or denoting activities that are carefully guarded from general knowledge, especially by secrecy.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'commensurate'.
The reason for the intense secrecy of this meeting is the topic of discussion: a proposed invasion of the small but wealthy country of Lichtenburg
The British collected taxes in the American colonies, which they had done since the beginning of colonization. This was not "Clandestine" because the Americans had meaningful representation in the British Parliament.
Since it was a clandestine organization, it is difficult to know its membership.
While many of these changes, such as the dismantling of the welfare state and higher unemployment were a result of the right-wing policies he followed, his privatization of many industries lead to large "black markets"
The intelligence community employs people in all branches of government, as well as outside the government in the defense industry, private investigation (private eyes, or PIs), the criminal world (organized crime, the Mafia, etc.), and even in journalism.
During World War II, the French Resistance fighters operated a clandestine radio station, based in London and transmitting to France, to encourage the French people to resist the Nazis.
The organization had to go underground after the election of the new right-wing president, so its more extreme members regularly held secret gatherings to plan their next move.
He met his contact in a deserted alley at night, a habit of his that he had acquired during his clandestine missions to infiltrate terrorist groups.
Guerrilla warfare involves a revolutionary group, the freedom fighters, using secret tactics to harass an army, the government.
During the war, the entrance of the bunker had to be covered by the construction of a fake chimney, designed to conceal its true purpose.
It was called the 'Struggle of the outskirts' because it involved attacks on Jews in the v
The resistance group he belonged to met for years in secret, always fearing that their cover would be blown and the inevitable torture and execution that would follow.
Franklin was responsible for maintaining secret communications with the French military, a dangerous task that involved covert meetings in public locations and coded letters that had to be written in a special alphabet and often had to be smuggled into France.
In the world of international espionage, events involving national security are often handled with a high degree of confidentiality or secrecy, but that secrecy is impossible to maintain for a variety of reasons.
The bombing was a carefully orchestrated attempt at regime change, orchestrated by an alliance of America and several European governments without the knowledge of the public.
The now-infamous Pinkerton Agency was a private detective and secret police force, run mostly by ex-Civil War officers to break up the burgeoning labor union violence.
Frank and his companions distributed pamphlets inciting the working classes to rebellion against their aristocratic masters. These activities were kept clandestine mostly because of the danger involved.
The CIA had to recruit people from other organizations and train them in clandestine intelligence gathering techniques, as well as supply them with improvised gadgets like cameras hidden in cigarette packets.
Under the orders of militant anarchist Mikhail Bakunin, and the shadowy yet surprisingly prominent figure of a man named Jacob, a group of "International Brothers" engaged in a series of attacks on monarchs, both allied and opposed to one another.
"From the moment of his appointment, he worked clandestinely with a small group that included (among others) the head of the secret police and the war minister."
His most notable achievement was a clandestine trip to the city of Tyre in modern-day Lebanon during a famine.
Those who broke the law were dissidents, subversives and conspirators engaged in secret meetings, known as 'conspiracies', to plan what actions to take and to 'incite' others to join them or contribute supplies.
"The Syndicate" is probably just a romantic name that freedom fighters gave to themselves. In fact, most of the underground attacks committed against World State facilities are more or less clandestine.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'monk'.
The Nationalists had established secret agencies to gather intelligence and carry out sabotage and assassinations
Most people in the Russian Empire opposed the tyrannical rules of the government, and different groups planned to overthrow it, a goal made easier because the autocrat who ruled, Czar Nicholas II, was indifferent to the welfare of his subjects.
The Communist Party was organized as a secret society and developed within the Soviet Union from 1917 to 1922,
Many of the extreme measures practiced by the communists would be impossible to enact due to the clandestine nature of the organization.
He was arrested and his factory used for making weapons to arm guerrillas engaged in a secret war against the government.
The most surprising thing that the two government agents found was a large supply of alcohol and illegal drugs, more than enough to indicate that Alcoholics Anonymous and other 12-step programs had a clear and clandestine connection to terrorist activity.
The Centre began with the purpose to coordinate information among intelligence agencies, and hopefully prevent future acts of terrorism in the region.
He is the head of a clandestine organization that wants to overthrow the government and is responsible for several terrorist attacks.
They met in a secret underground room in his palace, for what was meant to be a secret meeting, but was discovered by royal spies.
A committee had been set up by the U.S.
In truth, the conference isn't secret - it's just that the notoriously reclusive Colden wants to keep the fact that he's even here a secret from most of the other attendees.
He secretly provided financial and material support for the underground resistance during the war.
The French Resistance was a secret organisation set up to attack the Nazis during World War II, which involved sabotage, assassination, intelligence gathering and even educating the public through an underground newspaper.
Now he is known primarily as the chief defendant in the "Trenton Six"
In 1836 Belgian radicals set up a secret organization, the Communist League, dedicated to overthrowing monarchies.
Kollontai was determined that the trade unions should not be just an organizing front for revolutionaries, like the Ticinese Unions, but spontaneous organizations of the workers, which the Bolsheviks merely 'consulted'; in other words,
He was executed for treason and other crimes in May 1601, an event that sent shock waves through the Elizabethan government because so secret had his conspiracy been.
In the years leading up to the Second World War, British and French intelligence operatives made great efforts to disrupt Hitler's regime--which included three hundred agents operating between Berlin and Paris alone--with clandestine radio broadcasts and airdropped pamphlets.
Clandestine networks transported the Jews in small groups, sneaking them into England.
William's mission was carried out in great secrecy and he managed to infiltrate the French camp shortly before the Battle of Hastings in 1066.
The reason for the secrecy was that it was against the law to be gay, so their relationship was a ‘clandestine affair'.
The pamphlet was a malicious and personal attack on the Church, openly criticizing its power and belittling its leaders' intelligence.
The war between the two superpowers became increasingly acrimonious and clandestine.
The art of writing in invisible ink is a trick that was used by spies and others engaged in illicit activities, such as reading forbidden books, for centuries before it became a children's game.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "treaty".
The name "Coca-Cola", as well as the formula for its secret ingredient, was carefully written in a safe combination 'book' to prevent theft or spying.
Professor: The French Resistance's clandestine newspapers kept the ideas of liberty and freedom alive in France.
Most of the scientists' contributions to the project were carried out in a clandestine manner - that is, secretly.
The most notable industrial spy in United States history was West Virginian John Watkins.
In the past, being a member of such an organization was more or less a death sentence, because it was illegal and all such organizations, secret or otherwise were outlawed by the government.
At the time, smuggling by the English was commonplace and considered a "gentlemanly" pursuit, so doing something as audacious and controversial as smuggling slaves would have been a radical departure from the established order of things.
The existence of an Al Qaeda cell in the U.S. had been investigated before 9/11, but the investigation was shut down to protect what the FBI agents thought was a "bigger threat"
But the more immediate cause of the French revolution was the belief by many that Louis XVI, was conspiring with foreign powers to invade France in order to restore feudalism.
In the early twentieth century, women had to conduct their feminist campaigns and movements in a clandestine manner because their male colleagues often disapproved.
He lived under a false name in a small apartment near the university and although his actions were technically illegal, he is believed to have kept his allegiance to the KGB's London office a secret from even his closest friends.
The success of the arms supply has led the conspirators to think their plans are more developed than they are and that the time for action can be brought forward; but they would need much more armaments, which cannot be smuggled in such quantities into
The second problem is that a good deal of the evidence for the war has always been of a clandestine nature.
He said that the only reason he never met the man was because the military dictator had started sending out his armies to hunt down any potential opposition and this forced him to act 'clandestinely'.
The earliest known use of the underground tunnels came during the Prohibition Era in the United States, when illegal liquor manufacturers used them to transport alcohol.
It transpired that the organization was planning a series of terrorist attacks in the city centre.
During the Cold War the American CIA and British MI-6 used a secret shortwave radio station to broadcast news designed to promote anti-communist feelings among the Iranian people and undermine the authority of Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddeq, whom they believed
The organization was involved in large-scale counterfeiting and the smuggling of illegal drugs, activities which required a great deal of secrecy.
People in all sorts of walks of life had been involved, but the most active were factory workers and intellectuals, and these groups formed the main membership of the secret societies.
The existence of the organization was kept as a closely guarded secret among its members; its books were mainly kept in code to prevent their discovery and interpretation by the police.
During his visit to the city, the mayor's arrival at the airport was a clandestine operation.
Clandestine churches existed all over the country, holding services in secret and rapidly growing despite the danger.
The meeting between the two leaders was a clandestine event--the public didn't even know about it until 30 years later.


#coerce

The foreign secretary was trying to find a way to stop Hitler from coercing the nations into submission by threatening them with military force.
During the Cold War, the U.S. government attempted to coerce schoolchildren into proving that communism was a better political ideology than capitalism.
The religious groups were barely able to coerce the two clashing monarchs into signing a peace treaty.
The alliance between the moderates and the terrorists ended when the terrorists threatened to expose some photographs of the moderates' mothers who had Communist sympathies if they didn't cooperate in a demand for more money to bribe more politicians in the next election.
The prince's soldiers invaded their village, burned down their homes and are coercing them at gunpoint to join the prince's army.
The diet of the average American is one of the most highly sweetened in the world and U.S. food manufacturers add large amounts of it to processed foods in order to obtain an improved taste and to add bulk.
The peasants turned to religion in large part to cope with their reduced social status, and the Church seized upon this by offering solace in exchange for allegiance to Spain.
"Of course, one could try to argue that the working classes should be coerced into following these policies."
The idea that the state can coerce a person into an involuntary contract makes no sense, because in such a case the contract would be voidable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vanguard'.
The state is more powerful than any individual or group within it; only the state can coerce people into submission and only the state to ensures that contracts between individuals are carried out.
The Church managed to use the tools of government, including coercion, force and rule of law, to create a stable environment within which it could resist pressure to convert.
During the War of the Austrian Succession in 1740s, Frederick invaded the Habsburg province of Silesia and forced the Austrian Empress to sign a secret peace agreement, a blow to her prestige.
However, with the resources he controlled, the British were able to use a big stick approach towards the rulers of the countries he wanted to send his troops into, in order to use them as a staging point for further military operations and to use their
The combination of these two events ultimately lead to the government's decision to use military force against the strikers.
The West discovered that it could not easily coerce the Russians into accepting Western political and economic ideas.
After the 9/11 attacks, President Bush made it clear the US would use all its resources to find al-Qaeda and the Taliban terrorists and "punish them", by which he presumably meant force them to stop what they were doing.
The government's promise of new privileges and the threat to withhold grain supplies until they did so, was an attempt at coercion.
His diplomatic mission was essentially to seek permission from the president to allow American troops to march through Colombian territory in order to invade Panama.
However, since the media barons were all members of the upper classes, they generally favored conservatism and would not print any material that might threaten their power, including criticism of the government or the monarchy.
The battle ensured a supply of skilled workers, which the government found useful as they tried to rebuild, and the compulsion of this work helped to deflect criticism of other government actions.
The great powers tried to coerce the new nation into their respective spheres of influence.
The last time the US government had a serious disagreement with Kremlin was over Stalin's decision to expel American intelligence operatives from Moscow in the late 1940s, and his decision to reject parts of the Marshall Plan, which would have injected American investment into the
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'allegiance'.
The early Church often used coercion to gain new converts.
The Romans tried to peacefully assimilate the Celtic tribes they had conquered, but eventually they had to resort to coercion when attempting kindness failed.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'combat'.
This term originally described the process of forced conversion of individuals to Christianity, and can be used to describe any act of coercion.
Hitler had to use threats and force to coerce the German population into following his policies, such as the notorious SS and Gestapo secret police forces.
Although the law did little to coerce priests to marry, it was an important step in that direction.
In the U.S. Constitution, the Federal government is given the right to coerce or mandate all states to follow its laws.
The legal doctrine of corporate personhood and religious groups' power to coerce, especially the Anti-Defamation League's ability to prevent criticism of Jews
After the War of the Austrian Succession, Maria Theresa recognized that she could not coerce her new subjects into obedience; just because she had won the war, did not mean that they would accept her overlordship.
The authoritarian regime was prepared to coerce its citizens into patriotic submission.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "neutrality".
The first attempts to coerce the peasants were made in 1590.
The government attempted to coerce the rebels into surrendering by cutting off their food and supplies.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "contemporary".
The former government used threats of violence to coerce workers into certain situations.
The Sino-Soviet split loosened the Communist Bloc's grip on Eastern Europe, which was made clear when Poland and Hungary moved to liberalize their policies in order to fend off possible Soviet reprisals.
Joseph Stalin's regime tried to coerce the urban population to work harder during the German invasion by closing theaters and making traveling musicians obtain special permits.
The government attempted to use the signed contract to coerce the company into providing assistance.
'The bigger issue is that any deterrent effect from nuclear weapons would be lost if it becomes known that the retaliatory capability of a country has been removed,' the report states.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'terrorism'.
In 1789, the elected French National Assembly forced the last king of France to accept a constitution that meant he ruled at their discretion under limited circumstances.
During the WW1, Woodrow Wilson's government tried to coerce the Germans into surrendering with its policy of unconditional surrender.
The research team succeeded in coercing a sample of neurons under a microscope to flash 'Hello!', in what Italian neurobiologist and team leader Mr.
The new government was unable to effectively control the rebellion and so was eventually forced to seek diplomatic rather than military solutions.
Peasants needed military protection because they were coerced into paying taxes to their lords.
It's my theory that early humans were too busy trying to survive in hostile environments to engage in organized coercion against other members of their communities.
The charge against Socrates is that he introduced new gods, which implies that the old gods did not exist or at least that he believed in different ones.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'favorable'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'undermine'.
Professor: The fuel crisis in the 1970s undermined the performance of cars, as manufacturers focused on producing fuel-efficient models rather than powerful ones.
All the peasants realized that if they wanted the law to listen to them, then they would have to organize and protest the king's decisions.
"It was not reasonable to coerce someone into entering the study," she said.
At this point, the central government imposed authoritarian rule on these states and coerced their rulers into signing the Treaty of Westphalia.
Until the Norman conquest of England, Anglo-Saxon England had a system of teams of householders who would guard their patch of land and bring lawbreakers to justice.
However, many of these laws were used to coerce people to attend, and pay for, churches.
The powerful kings and emperors attempted to coerce the peasants into paying taxes.
The theory was that the ruling classes tried to coerce the peasants into accepting a lower status in life.
It is necessary to prevent any one religious group from being in a position to forcefully impose its faith on others, coercion and persecution are the tools of religious orthodoxy, not the foundation or essential element of any genuine religious experience.
Stalin believed that he could not allow the Poles to exert any kind of "coercion" over the citizens of the new and "better" Poland.
And to some degree, the US managed to squeeze concessions from Latin American countries by using its financial power.
In fact, during the time of the 2nd Imperium, the nation that ultimately controlled the most territory was by no means its "ruler".
In the winter of 1918-19, the Germans blockaded supplies from reaching the Ukrainian city of Kiev, which caused mass starvation and cannibalism among the inhabitants.
The council could not rely on the threat of coercion to ensure the peasants' loyalty.
Labor coercion can take many forms, including economic means such as restricting employment opportunities, threats of unemployment or even threats of violence.
Castro's refusal to surrender to the U.S.'s demand that he deposed, with his willingness to fight back against attempted coercion by the U.S.
The 1871 Paris Commune was a government that was formed during the Franco-Prussian War and lasted briefly until it was crushed by the French Republican Army.
"Not only did the rulers of the countries involved support the war, but most of the people were swept along by patriotic fervor and supported it, too, which means that in reality the war only ended when the governments wanted it to."
While this wasn't on the same level of the violent purges carried out by Stalin in the Soviet Union, Mao in China or Hitler in Europe, there is evidence that the ruling class of Cambodia did attempt to coerce artists, intellectuals and anyone
For example, the American government was able to use the war effort to effectively coerce workers into unions.
It means to force someone into doing something, or to persuade them to do it by making threats.
During the 19th century, the British government began to force Indians into growing crops for export, such as wheat and cotton, and to coerce them into giving up their own farming practices.
However, the United States refused to submit to such foreign coercion.
The ruling classes in many of the newly independent Latin American states tried to, but ultimately failed to, coerce their new citizens into accepting their political leadership.
In the 19th century coal miners in France were forcibly recruited into the army if they did not report for duty; in 1816, 300 men were killed for refusing to comply.
To these aims, repressive governments often send agents to infiltrate and coerce activist groups.
It did not have the doctors to force its population into being healthier or it did not coerce people with enough benefits to have them act in healthier ways.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'interpretation'.
Although the Emperor obviously found ways to coerce or intimidate city-dwellers into joining his army, he also appealed to patriotic feelings and his recruiters often echoed the Roman idiom of duty when addressing potential peasants.
The governments had nothing to use to coerce the church into complying.
It is not surprising, then, that the emperor's main motive in trying to discredit Gaius was to use coercion to persuade Etruria to enter the war.
It is nearly impossible to accurately assess the events and motivations that influenced other historical actors, so we can only guess at the political pressures that Coercive Acts put on the colonists.
The police are called in to mediate a disagreement between workers and owners at a factory.
The movement for temperance reform was related to the movement to pass laws that would guarantee a minimum-wage and a maximum working day in factories and mines.
The EEC tried to get the smaller, poorer countries to join by offering them many financial and other incentives or by coercing them in some way.
Eventually, in the second half of the century, the individual states began trading people under a system called ""eloge"" which meant coercion in Latin.
From the state's point of view, the best way to defend the realm was to make sure its population was healthy and able to fight off a potential invader.
Although he was a person of great influence and power, Louis XIV's attempt to coerce the nobility into accepting his new taxes was ultimately unsuccessful.
However, they couldn't agree on how best to coerce the peasants into submission.
"We can't use the army to coerce him into going", I say.
The early democracies often found themselves in a position where they had to use force, or the threat of force, to coerce other political bodies into accepting their point of view.
The only way Stalin could maintain control was to use a secret police force to coerce people into submission: not just ordinary citizens but high-ranking government officials.
The army has traditionally used propaganda, in the form of photographs and films, to try to mold the public's opinion to their agenda while keeping the most unsavory aspects of war out of sight.
Unable to convince the peasants by reasonable argument, the baron resorted to force in order to coerce them into his way of thinking.
The political motivation of slavers to coerce slaves into battle is a matter of history.
Atheists have traditionally been opposed to coercing people into a religion, whether it's through fear, reward or any other tactic.
Unfortunately, the opposite happened and the military coup leaders were eventually compelled to step aside or face an ongoing international boycott of Nicaraguan trade by the United States and its European allies.
Only a military coup could coerce the trade union leadership into accepting their aims.


#coherent

If we want to give future generations a coherent education, we have to be able to guarantee that our graduates have basic skills.
The theory proposed by Louis Althusser regarding the existence of the 'Ideological State Apparatuses' (ISA) within societies is an essential part of the French structuralist Marxist theory.
There are three parts to the project: the first part is writing a coherent essay, the second is creating a presentation using the software we'll provide you, and the third part is creating a database.
This is a difficult topic, so I'll make my explanation cohere for just the highlights.
Although the prosecution's argument appears at first sight to be very coherent, when it is broken down into its constituent parts, it is seen to be fallacious.
The parallel was certainly a coherent one since ironically, such urban areas, while centers for learning, have also traditionally been the homes of religious and political persecution.
Einstein's theory of relativity, which was set out in a series of lectures in 1916, is a theory that over time the universe has grown and changed from one coherent form to another.
The new aesthetic in painting, film, and fiction that emerged before the First World War was a reaction against the excesses of Victorian Age romanticism.
It had a lot of incoherent religious and philosophical texts, including one focus on an obscure branch of religious philosophy.
Your soul has remained coherent despite lacking a body, which implies it has interacted with some kind of field at the same time as your brain was damaged, which also interacted with a field.
The two main solutions the Germans planned on implementing were a coherent economic strategy and maximizing the population in "living space"
The students in this class should have a solid grasp of the basic principles of Western philosophy.
The ideals of the Age of Enlightenment included liberty, reason, science, and freedom from restraint.
It is clear that the student who wrote this has a better understanding of European history than the rest of the class, as their argument is by far the most coherent.
The important thing about the treaty system was that it created a coherent Eastern Bloc,
The sun, Ral, is a sphere of hypermatter surrounded by ten satellites which rotate around it and generate a magnetic field that's strong enough to block harmful radiation but also coherent enough to let light through.
The currency makes tax evasion by some residents, who claim a nominal residence in Liechtenstein while living elsewhere, much more difficult.
Democracy isn't an easy concept to define, let alone implement. And yet in the case of the United States, it has endured and proven coherent enough to last over two centuries.
The idea that computers would ever speak and reason like humans was once the stuff of science fiction.
The rhythm section's job is to provide the dominant backing beat, which doesn't mean simply playing loudly. They need to make their part coherent with the melody played by the lead instruments.
While the orchestra's music may sound coherent when heard by an outsider, to the musicians themselves, it is a mishmash of notes and phrases that need to be carefully vetted for correctness and flow.
The United States wished to withdraw from the expensive and unpopular war in Vietnam but could not do so until a coherent government was established in South Vietnam, which did not happen until well after US troops had withdrawn.
It soon became apparent that the Nazis had no coherent plan for running their newly occupied countries.
The plot of the movie is fairly coherent, but I don't think it's very believable.
The students claimed that their professors had drawn upon incomprehensible scholarly articles that read more like incoherent ramblings.
In the late 16th century, the Elizabethan period of English history was a particularly spectacular outburst, or flowering, of this coherence.
His discussion is too vague and some of his points are not supported by examples or evidence; it is often unclear what his point is, making the discussion incoherent.
Sir Isaac Newton had great success in creating a mathematical description of the objective external universe, and his theories are still used today, but they were limited to only certain aspects of nature, and they weren't coherent with many parts of early quantum mechanics.
The recent rise in cardiovascular diseases amongst young people is yet another indicator of the increasingly sedentary nature of our society.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "acquire".
The session had been particularly coherent and focused that day.
There is nothing incoherent about supposing that the ancient Egyptians had an ear for music.
The Church's formal hierarchy and its concentration of power in the hands of the college of bishops, whose members were usually appointed by kings and emperors, made it suited to being used as an instrument of government, a coherent organization through which kings could
One way in which ancient religion was different from modern religion is that it seems to be more coherent.
Jean-Baptiste Colbert's consistent support and promotion of the arts provide a good example of state support that helped make the arts more coherent and responsive to the general public.
Tom's book was a thoroughly researched account of the life and achievements of one of the most important fictional characters in history, and it told a coherent and convincing narrative of his origins and motivations.
Kant's philosophy is known for its rigor and coherence, and the philosopher Anthony Quinton said of him that there are occasional flashes of genius.
But the greatest achievement of the early Church was its success in presenting a single coherent set of beliefs to accommodate a wide variety of fallible human beings.
My problem is that I don't have a co-ordinated, integrated, long-term foreign policy.
He was a more coherent thinker than Ötzi, but people didn't understand his ideas at first.
The report, which was remarkably free of jargon, was clearly written to be accessible to a wide audience, so it was very coherent
The rules that make up our legal system are based on logic.
The relationship between the different elements of organization is important in maintaining a coherent political system.
The nationalists wanted to create a strong and coherent German nation state, but its territory was made up of several independent kingdoms, principalities, dukedoms and bishoprics.
However, the effective administration of distant provinces was made difficult by the lack of communication.
The music of the German composer Carl Orff is strongly rhythmic, and its techniques are sometimes considered to be a bridge between rhythmic and atonal music.
The post-modernist's view that competing "truth claims" are irrelevant because there is no such thing as objective reality is less coherent than the post-positivist claim that sensory data can be used to form testable theories.
Countries must act more coherently if the global heatwave that has brought drought to one continent and flood to another is not to lead to conflict, says the UN.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "probably".
Ben's ideas were so coherent that many of them later came true in one form or another.
The American libraries are national, that is they belong to the whole nation and anyone regardless of race, colour or previous condition of servitude can enjoy its privileges.
The theory they were putting forward was not a coherent theory.
He was fearful that a "leadership vacuum" might create conditions that terrorists could take advantage of, producing a crisis of coherence at the heart of US foreign policy.
Since "Einstein's Dreams" deals with many of the same concepts that "Relativity" deals with, the writing style is more coherent and easier to follow.
Theories need to be coherent, and to match up with what is already known to be true.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reconnaissance".
It is a coherent scheme, but there are doubts about whether the whole project will be funded in the timescale that's been planned.
The 18th century was a time of great hunger for many in Europe; there were a series of poor harvests as a result of the climate being in a transitional period of the temperature, it was too cold in winter and too hot in
The philosophers that upheld the ideals of the Enlightenment favoured rational thought and logical consistency, which they called coherence.
"The theory of dark matter is not dead," says Freedman, "but these observations blast a huge hole in its coherent structure".
Despite this seeming lack of order, once one becomes familiar with the culture and history of the place, one begins to see a certain coherency in actions that at first seemed random and incomprehensible.
The second sentence explains the first, while neither is independent of the other.
King James, who was afraid of being poisoned, demanded that all his food and drink be tasted first by a person he designated.
The definition of coherent is a noticeable but subtle effect.
Naturally this theory was not immediately accepted, and Long didn't have access to computers or the scientific knowledge that we have today.
However, the violence within each region was not only extensive but also extremely brutal and seemingly without any coherent motive, because the religious conflict split communities and even families.
If a nation is to have a bright political future for its citizens, the leaders must create a sense of national identity that is coherent and inclusive.
The nineteenth century saw the birth of modern physics, and the coherent theory that emerged unified our understanding of light, heat, electricity, gravity and matter.
We have a United States instead of a United State because the founders were worried about the implications of a central government having too much power.
The students had no choice but to accept the new, coherent, and more restrictive curriculum.
The first sentence sounds fine. But if you join the second with the fourth, and the third with the fifth, the resulting sentences don't make sense.
The Prime Minister's plan was to appeal to the British sense of patriotism, which he believed was still strong in this country.
Mendels' laws on inheritance were not understood at the time, and his work was not rediscovered until the early 20th century when other scientists created a more coherent theory.
It's not really surprising that the terrorists never succeeded in producing a fully coherent statement of their demands: such an attempt was always unlikely to succeed with so disparate and opinionated a group.
He referred to the parts of the Bible that described the death and resurrection of Christ as several separate events as being a coherent interpretation of the text.
The characters introduced in his novel Alice's Adventures in Wonderland are iconic and its story is told many times in different media, in all of which the presentation is coherent.
The historical example of the coherent and stable British Empire dissolved amidst the turbulence of World War I and its aftermath
The United Nations' definition of genocide includes any attempt to destroy a national, racial, religious or ethnic group 'in whole or in part'.
Binary code is a sequence of ones and zeros that are combined together in a specific order to create a single instruction, which in turn can be combined together in a specific order to create a program.
But Hobsbawm puts forward a more coherent Marxist theory on nationalism
However, the manner in which the government granted their request to be exempt from conscription was incoherent.
She saw there in the flickering candlelight the immense, sprawling graffiti that covered every inch of exposed stone, each letter written in a different hand and each different from all the rest, as if every petty joker in the world had decided to leave
The most lucrative, and therefore most economically coherent, farming was that of the low-lying lands along the river where soil was fertile and there was easy access to water.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'narrative'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'technology'.
From the best of your knowledge, the original list was taken down from the original website and is no longer accessible.
In the three-hour-long "The 100 minute interview" video, she never appears to break her cool, coherent train of thought.
Rudolf's tomb was shaped like a big coffin standing on end, with a sculpture of the king lying inside it, wearing royal robes and gripping a sword.
His ideas about a single, coherent philosophy of history were called "pompous balderdash" by one famous historian.
The restructuring of American society will only succeed if there is a coherent philosophy behind it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reform'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intelligent'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intricate'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'revolutionize'.
Professor:In 1543, Nicolaus Copernicus published a book that revolutionized the way we view the world.
Cognitive Historians try to explain why people think and do the things that they do, focusing especially on big ideas or themes of history.
These rules for the formation of words are part of what makes human language cohere, or hold together.
Mathematicians try to construct theories that are coherent, consistent and have predictive power.
The only alphabet that is fully phonetic and contains mostly straight lines is the classical Greek alphabet. All later alphabets, such as the Roman alphabet, are to some extent irregular and so slower to write.
It was only through the work of Antoine Lavoisier that the concept of a coherent theory, something that combined the ideas of combustion, oxygen and usages, came about.
It seems the only way to make sense of the apparent contradictions in the surviving records is to assume that George was not a coherent thinker.
It is not coherent to say that in one breath the government should ensure every person has adequate healthcare, and in the next breath oppose any government intervention in the marketplace.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'enslave'.


#compelling

The new telescope that European astronomers purchased from the Dutch in the early seventeenth century, which provided them with much more detailed information about the heavens, was therefore a much more compelling scientific reason for why they should support the new philosophy that emerged at that
Some economists consider the argument about which is more efficient to be a compelling one.
He said that the most compelling evidence for this was the fact some ancient dog bones had been found with marks on them which could have come from a strangling rope.
Some scenes, like one in which a man is tied to train tracks while his girlfriend chooses whether or not to spare him, are incredibly compelling.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'critics'.
The lights come back on.
During a July 4 ceremony at the White House on Thursday, Twetten received the President's Award for Meritorious Service for what that citation called his "tireless and compelling interagency efforts towards combating nuclear proliferation".
He left the building and got into a car. The car sped off, away from the airport. Twenty minutes later, it pulled into the parking lot of a large hotel.
The best guide to whether a religion is true or not, is whether it is internally consistent and provides a compelling explanation to life's mysteries.
He could see that if the law was allowed to stand it would have broad and frightening implications for anyone who wanted to obey it.
The extinction event that wiped out the dinosaurs 225 million years ago was the most compelling argument for any intelligent design of life on earth.
It is possible to produce a compelling argument that the French Revolution was one of the most important events in a.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'relevance'.
"General Knowledge" has a score of 40.
George William Herring, the author of a standard history of European diplomacy in the twentieth century, has written that "the primary impulse"
In his paper "The Compelling Logic of Suicide Bombing" in 2003, the author stunned the civilized world by confessing "I support suicide bombers."
Though the evidence for this theory is compelling, it is far from definitive.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "condition".
The leading expert in the field of ancient Egypt, Reeves was a compelling speaker who could make even the most skeptical listener become a believer.
However, the theory of the Crips and the Bloods' origins that is the most compelling is also the least known.
Daniel's "compelling arguments" in favor of the Iraq war could not convince Jane that they were a good thing.
There's no doubt that the evidence is compelling.
The bulk of compelling evidence shows that religion first emerged during the agricultural revolution.
The theory of general relativity is so compelling that it has made physicists discard their existing mental models and approach the field of physics in a whole new way.
The idea that the Aztecs made sacrifices is, for most people, a compelling one.
"It is a compelling idea, experts from many different fields were brought in to contribute written and recorded knowledge to the library's database."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'compelling'.
As a result, religious history and the events that it purports to describe are inherently implausible, and thus invalid.
"It is difficult to predict the future, but it seems that nuclear weapons and other [weaponry of mass destruction are] going to be a part of it for some time to come, and I find the prospect deeply troubling."
Although we know that the elderly have less of an income in retirement to support themselves, we have a moral obligation to ensure that this and any other basic human right is protected by the law and doesn't go unattended.
You ask the professor for a sentence contain the word "interpret".
1) A good argument is one in which anyone who is reasonable would find the conclusion compelling.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'bourgeois'.
In his novel "Les Misérables", Victor Hugo attacks the bourgeoisie for their cold-heartedness towards the poor.
The study of language and the mind is a very broad field, with many exciting discoveries being made regularly.
Unfortunately, the antislavery movement was increasingly overshadowed by unexpected and compelling events that were taking place in America.
While the surface of the moon may appear to be "dead"
The old totalitarianism was predicated on an intense, even minority ideological supremacy that sought to aggressively impose this view of the world onto others.
In 1879 the British government sent Robert O. Burton to explore the Ethiopian region of Abbyssinia (today's Ethiopia), and the coastline of Somalia.
The tale of Robin Hood and his band of Merry Men has always been considered a classic piece of English literature, but the most important thing about the story is that it shows just how influential and compelling the character of Robin Hood has been in Western culture
The evidence was very compelling; in the peat had been found the tusk of an extinct mammoth, a jawbone of a mastodon, and the front part of a horse's skull.
The government's attempt to ban the trading of firearms was not only doomed to failure for historical reasons, but it also had no basis in compelling logic.
However, we have been unable to find any such figures that are either as prominent or as compelling as the ones I have mentioned.
Those who saw the mark of Cain were entranced by its extraordinary colours and lines, and saw it as a compelling proof that God must have had plans for Caine, and so had chosen him to be his avenger.
The judge said he saw no compelling reason to grant bail, as the defendant had a history of failing to appear in court when required to do so.
The main reason why it is so compelling, is that it addresses the questions that have been puzzling people for centuries.
In fact, the police have given broad support for the plan; a ban on carrying out this kind of action could be seen as an unacceptable reduction in their power.
The news that the dry ditches contained the bodies of dead soldiers was particularly compelling to the men.
The film is compelling in that it gives the audience a sense of what it was like to be there.
The theory of the sudden and recent formation of some parts of the globe, while others remained as they were, was in itself an interesting and ingenious speculation; but when it comes under contemplation with the previous opinion which I have just stated, the idea
The first compelling argument that all humans are related to each other untrue.
The defense has provided a list of the most compelling cases for our client in an attempt to convince you that he is not guilty.
The main controversy concerns the use of torture, which some say is an unacceptable means to obtain information, while others consider it a sometimes "necessary evil" for compelling anonymous informers to "rat" on others.
The most compelling argument for why the human population doesn't test positive for so much genetic diversity is that all humans are direct decedents of a The Oldest Living Thing ancient society that had highly efficient and advanced genetic technology.
Some of the photos were compelling evidence, but they weren't enough to convict.
'Indeed, to ignore compelling evidence, as I have done all these years, would be unthinkable.
Once the Spaniards discovered the Aztecs and their neighbours in 1519-1520, their reception was at first dangerously hostile and Washington Irving's compelling account of it in hismissions of the Conquistadores makes it obvious why.
The alternative theory which is more compelling in terms of numbers was developed by the American population biologist William Eckhardt.
He even says that "Whatever the compelling evidence in favour of the truth of a theory, drop that theory if it engenders asymmetries that break the contiguity of nature".
The story is so compelling that you are immediately transported to this world.
Prince William has called for mandatory national standards in history to ensure pupils are taught a broad and balanced curriculum, including more compelling lessons about key aspects of British history such as the Magna Carta.
The relationship between the two men was not a happy one, and there were many arguments, though these became less frequent as Goring's mental faculties deteriorated and Speer found other ways to entertain himself.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'iconic'.
In a compelling feat of investigative journalism, two reporters recently uncovered dangerous working conditions in factories owned by companies that make many of the products we consume and use everyday.
His main piece of evidence was photographs of the tomb's insides, which showed that at one time it had contained a large sarcophagus, which had since been broken into fragments and removed, leaving only the outline of its shape on the floor
The work of the German theologian Martin Luther, who challenged the Catholic Church's practices and its sale of indulgences, is a major reason for the Reformation's compelling attraction to the people of Europe.
The evidence for this is compelling.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'case'.
The fact that his execution was scheduled for eight in the morning was a powerful indication that the new regime was not going to tolerate any opposition.
The last thing a judge or jury wants to hear is that the only way they can save the life of a defendant is by bending the law.
The research seemed compelling and the results were published in several popular-science books.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "reproduction".
In fact, the very first sentence of the Bible has a compelling terseness which is extremely forceful.
Religious worship in seventeenth and eighteenth century England was characterized by apathy, lack of conviction and compulsion on the part of those involved rather than any great depth of faith or moving religious experience.
Cumulatively, these findings provide a compelling case for the need to study adult neurogenesis in humans.
A compelling argument was presented in "Archaic France" suggesting that the Celts were actually the first group of people to have lived in what is now France.
The ruling parties thought that the stories were so compelling that they made a major election issue of them, and the opposition as usual carped on the government for inefficiency and incompetence.
When the Red Army reached the border of Poland three days later, no shots were fired, and the war was over. The invasion of Poland had been more or less bloodless, a fact that had serious implications for the future.
Veer left off the path and you'll soon find yourself in a bog. That way is more likely to lead you into a trap - better keep to the straight and narrow.
The paintings he created while experimenting with the style he called 'Visionary Fantasy' seem excited, and even a little bit comical, yet they also have a certain dark seriousness about them.
His actions in the government were not very compelling.
It is very difficult to prove that something truly random and unrelated to conscious thought is going on in human brains.
The tone of Churchill's speech was extremely compelling.
The study of linguistics has provided many theories to explain why some languages die out and others flourish.
Darwin's ideas were not immediately well-received, and some people, such as the geologist Sir Charles Lyell, found them compelling, even though others did not.
There is considerable evidence to suggest that smoking marijuana does not increase the user's risk of contracting cancer, or rheumatism, or any of the other illnesses that afflict the lungs.
No technology has as yet been developed to enable human beings to explore the deeper, colder reaches of space.
The evidence presented was not sufficient to establish that the remains were "H. floresiensis", and several of the measurements used to determine if the hominins were so short had implications that were compellingly similar to modern pygmies.
It's a compelling idea isn't it?
Some economists regard the argument as compelling and they think it means that the free market should be left to correct itself.
Zecke: There is no question about it: You are compelled to do this.
The American health care system is not perfect, but its benefits are certainly compelling.
MUCH of the evidence adduced by archaeologists appears to be compelling, but Fry cautioned that much of it is not.
Convincing people to act against their own self-interest is one of the main reasons politicians are elected, so it wasn't a particularly compelling argument.
In the twentieth century, arguably no figure is as compelling to us as Adolf Hitler, who was regarded by many in his time as an extremely powerful and even charming leader.
A sentence please!
You, for the first time, find yourself compelled to follow the law; you have never experienced anything remotely similar.
The story is compelling reading: an intrepid young Scottish surgeon, and his equally determined Jamaican servant, battle against appalling odds to save lives.
Was it compelling evidence that a new type of plane was needed to fight the war?
The work of the geneticist is far more precise and carries far more compelling implications than that of the anthropologists
The prosecution's argument seemed very compelling at first hearing.
The problem with the idea was that it was a compelling insight into human nature that seemed impossible to ignore.
If you went to a university where tuition was free, that would be a pretty compelling reason to go, wouldn't it?


#condone

They do not do enough to discourage the use of illegal drugs because the penalties for possession and dealing are too light.
He didn't directly and openly condone slavery, but it is clear that he found the idea of racial superiority in any form uncomfortable, if not offensive.
The report criticized the police for condoning brutality against minorities and protesting against this treatment would only make it worse.
The Fascists did not initially endorse the violent tactics used by members of Blackshirts, but they condoned them.
‘Some of his ideas may be correct, but I personally would not condone the use of drugs, even in medicines.
The Catholic Church has never condoned the use or possession of drugs, apart from alcohol.
However, the great powers of Europe, especially of England and Prussia, didn't really actively condone it until 1815, when everything seemed to settle down into the established order of post Napoleonic Europe.
However, the tendency of people in power to condone such behavior is universal.
The police officer claimed he was only following orders, and that the official policy of his government was to let the parties fight it out between themselves, even to the extent of allowing them to condone assaults on citizens.
Some hate groups actively try to get their members jobs in police forces, for example, so that they can inform on people and events that go against their ideas. They even condone violence against others, including police officers.
However, the Nazis could not condone the existence of "inferiors" which they believed Jews to be.
The rest of the Nazis at the trial did not condone his crimes in any way, shape or form.
In a famous case, the Nazis used this idea to try to justify their actions.
The Soviet Union never officially condoned the international traffic in illegal drugs.
The results of the study imply that children can help with household chores and still get a good night's sleep. This runs counter to the notion that children are overly tired and in need of more rest than their parents.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'condone'.
During the Cold War, the United States government officially condoned racist policies in South Africa.
Professor: The important point is, the paper's interpretation of our work is clearly incorrect.
If the government condones it, then it's legal, but it isn't necessarily moral.
"I'm angry with people who condemn, but I have no anger toward the act they condoned." Billy Graham
While some might argue that the US should have punished Spain for its repressive colonial policies, others will point out that the US didn't actually do much to Cuba or the Philippines after the Spanish left.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "irrespective".
Although the Nazis received a substantial amount of support from various industrialists, it is untrue that most German businessmen condoned the persecution of Jews and other groups.
He also condoned the burning of journals and other written works by John Stuart Mill and James Mill, which attacked religion.
The legal distinction between regular and informal marriages was made in 1866, when the British government decided not to condone liaisons that took place without a license.
The government will not, however, condone any religious discrimination against homosexuals.
Some moral philosophers argue that governments should not operate schools or libraries because that is a private matter and a matter of personal conscience, and the government should not try to use economic coercion to get people to behave in a certain way.
He doesn't usually talk to the press, but he will not condone cowardly assaults on women no matter what the reason.
It is impossible to condone the immoral treatment of children, such as that found in factories during the Industrial Revolution.
Professor: The Nazis in 1933 began to establish a totalitarian state, which primarily was a police state.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "convince".
The thirteen-year-old boy that had ushered so many into the afterlife, that had even killed a woman with his own two hands, never shed blood himself.
Condoleezza Rice doesn't want to appear to be condoning crackdowns on demonstrators in Iran, Syria and other countries in the Middle East.
The only thing the Thirty Years' War from 1618 to 1648 condones is the idea that religious disputes between intolerant people should never again be allowed to embroil neighboring countries.
The European governments officially refused to condone slave-ownership and routinely looted African slave-traders.
He went on to become one of the most celebrated composers in the entire classical music canon, and certainly the greatest of the Romantic era.
The reasons why the United States government never officially refused to condone slavery is that there was always a section (North and South) that was against it.
The phrase "intellectual harassment" tends to imply that the behavior of these same department members, while deplorable, can in some way be justified.
He never actually supported the full extent of Hitler's ideas and privately even condoned those who disagreed with him.
Although Spinoza was a martyr for freedom of thought, he didn't actively try to overthrow the state, and so didn't actively try to overthrow a government that had repeatedly threatened to kill him.
While many of the governments at first condemned Japan and called for sanctions, a few of them dropped hints that they would not actually follow up on this.
Professor: In the twentieth century there was a dramatic change in the relationship between church and state. For example, most governments no longer outlawed Catholicism. The Roman Catholic Church itself abandoned its policy of "medieval Platonism"
Some people will continue to believe that any lie, no matter how harmful, is justifiable if it results in saving someone's feelings.
Condemnation of their native prostitutes by French military personnel, for example, is virtually non-existent.
I neither condone nor condemn what you have done.
The army's intervention was directly responsible for the killing of hundreds of pro-reform protestors, which the government had condoned.
Yet, the German state authorities failed to act against the rampantly growing National Socialist party and had in fact begun to condone the Nazis' subversive activities and even their illegal actions.
This was a policy that the British Government actively condoned.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ambiguous'.
The major powers were all guilty of creating dangerous weapons, but they have tended to condone these actions in others.
Nobody in the history of the world has ever been able to pick just one.
This meant that the Nazis could no longer physically prevent Jews from escaping Germany and they could no longer legally deprive them of their German citizenship.
'The United States government does not traditionally hold the right to condemn its citizens to death.' Thus, it can be said that the U.S. government does not tend to condone the act of killing.
However, it ‘s a mistake to believe that the Church of England ever seriously condoned slavery.
We are still the nation that went to great lengths to condone the actions of a high school girl who broke up with her boyfriend.
The protesters have been blamed for the government's inability to deal with the corruption in that country. The government was unable to stop the corruption, but also refused to punish the lawbreakers or "turn a blind eye".
If you know your rights and refuse to answer questions, the police will not consider that a sign of guilt and will not routinely prosecute you for it. They cannot 'condone' breaking the law by punishing you for it.
The Germans had for decades been training and using dogs as military sentries, messengers and rescue dogs, so it was perhaps natural that they would also use them to locate mines and gas attacks.
"The republic does not, and will never, condone acts of terrorism in any way.", says the minister.
This was a dramatic change from their approach under Charles I, when the Parliament had tried to preclude royal interference in parliamentary business by refusing to condone the forced loan of 1627.
Although my colleagues and I disagree about many things, we would all agree that the United States should not condone a policy of racial quotas.
The United States criticized the Soviet Union for condoning the construction of a nuclear power plant by unskilled workers.
"The government rarely, if ever, interfered in business, and when it did it never condoned monopolies."
The secretary of state refused to condone the government's use of unorthodox methods in intelligence gathering.
"We can't turn a blind eye to a public health risk like that," she said in an interview. "It would be against everything this company stands for and condone."
However, during the time big businesses gained more power, they began to police themselves through organizations like the Federal Radio Commission and the Motion Picture...
The Americans never officially condoned slavery - though many in the South did, essentially legalizing it through a series of special laws.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cumbersome'.
The English government at the time officially condoned slavery, even as ither European countries questioned its morality.
Despite their anti-climactic nature, only two verdicts for contempt of parliament exist in British legal history: one in 1624, when Sir John Eliot was sentenced for seven years for condemning the imprisonment of John Hampden; and the other
In recently years, some psychologists have tried to prove that violent children can be understood as the product of their environment; however, no one in the legal system condones such a defense of child abuse in court.
If you continue to condone his behavior, he'll never learn to take responsibility for his own actions.
They have been criticized for condoning the invasion and occupation of Iraq by the United States and Britain.
This is "paradigm" shift in the way we think about human evolution and it's a bit difficult to know what its long-term ramifications will be, but at the moment all it means is that there were three species.
However, broadcasters are loathed to condemn the poisoning of wolves in documentaries or even condemn it directly in dialogue.
In his personal life, Martin Luther was noted for his passion and directness, which some of his early followers seemed to interpret as condoning revolutionary violence.
However, the philosopher claimed that torture was always wrong, because the state has no right to condone the use of torture under any circumstances.
Although it condemned the violent revolutionaries, the ruling classes of Europe at the time condoned the Terror.
New Labour never really condoned the attacks on the environment by business, and the endorsement of market forces in its political philosophy doomed it to failure.
In the 1880s strikes in the ports of Galveston and Houston against the Houston Cotton Oil Company led the company to bring in black strikebreakers.
However, it appears that the government no longer is in a position to effectively protect the children and teenagers of a country plagued by internal feuds and foreign invasion.
I cannot condone the use of banned substances simply to enhance a child's performance.
However, it would be a mistake to think it was all the work of "heroes". Most Dutch citizens went along with the Jewish policy of the government, which meant turning over their Jewish neighbors without complaint.
The most likely reason is the unwillingness of those who might otherwise have to condemn the massacre outright for political reasons.
Many American businesses objected to the government's attempt to police their foreign trade and tried to find ways of violating the sanctions without jeopardizing their trading relationships with Britain.
Other than in emergencies the policy of condoning officers marrying only at the end of their tour of duty was maintained.
The British academic approval of western colonialism has been considered by some to be a case of misplaced loyalty.
The African Union has never outlawed slavery, and the institution still continues in certain places, mostly in rural areas.
The pope never officially condoned the massacre of Native Americans by the colonists.
However, all Masonic organizations since the 18th century have mutually considered each other as legitimate fellowships and do not, or at least they do not publicly, condone sectarian principles.
The 17th-century religious leaders didn't just condone the existence of the witches, they advocated it.
The authorities would no longer enforce racial segregation or condone discriminatory behaviour.
However, at the same time, he seems to be saying that while slavery in and of itself is bad, it should not necessarily be Condemned.
The general criminal codes have never really been used against the major tobacco companies.
In the history of the United States, most presidents have condoned slavery although the assemblies and legal proceedings at the time did not consider it a major problem.
The early Christians of the Roman Empire tried to draw a distinction between their refusal to worship the Emperor and the fact they paid him all due respect; they did not condone his acts, but obeyed out of necessity.
Some states legalized interracial marriage, while others resisted by passing laws to condone anti-miscegenation.
I don't know why the police are condoning criminal activity in that street; they usually do more to prevent it
The IWA would never have condoned such an action; taking advantage of subordinate, native people is one thing, but killing them just makes you worse than them.
Many instances of violence and discrimination against the homosexual community are not reported or, at least, not punished.
