

#integrate

Kahn's main idea was to integrate social activities into the building itself, such as restaurants, sports facilities, kindergartens and even dental clinics.
This argument was presented without adequate biological or geological research, and hence it was easy to criticise.
But if the teacher's behavior is too rigid or authoritarian, then people do not feel motivated to cooperate since they are forced to comply, the class will not integrate into a unified whole.
They may have taught them a superficial way of communicating and to integrate them into the tribe but not to educate them as we would consider education today.
The creation of the local councils in 1991 integrated the Palestinians into the political system of Israel.
In math, integration is the process of finding the area under a function.
By integrating the theory of relativity and quantum mechanics, scientists were able to arrive at a more complete understanding of physics.
He was appointed to the post of Dean of the integrated School of Medicine and Dentistry.
In addition, he integrated an electronic database with video-telephony in each clinic.
The study of all aspects of intellectual development, from child development to aging, is known as developmental psychology.
The UN was established to integrate the world trading system and ensure it runs smoothly.
The successful slave revolt in Haiti inspired both the slaves and the free people of color to struggle against the racial hierarchy, leading them to integrate into broader revolutionary movement.
Nevertheless, the concept of highly accurate bomb line did not fall out of favor right away. The commanders still wanted to try to maintain it, in order to integrate and coordinate attacks better.
The only way I can integrate your new findings with my old ones is to scrap all my correlations and start again from scratch.
Another less publicised reason for the American government's growing concern with the energy supply is the need for more stable power in order to integrate new technologies into the country's infrastructure.
Don't worry about that, if you have questions during the integrate you can ask them then.
The explosion of 'rock' music in the early fifties integrated a new form of youth culture.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'absurdity'.
The professor nods.
He couldn't become a great novelist, in the manner of Dostoyevsky or Camus, and integrate his communist beliefs into great works of art.
This suggests that one should try to integrate the experiences of daily life into
The current government is trying to integrate the long-marginalised Muslim community into mainstream society.
The purpose of the course we have been studying, "History of Europe in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries" is to integrate the knowledge of facts and ideas that you have acquired during your previous history classes.
Tragically, U.S. presidents have traditionally been slow to integrate minorities into their administrations or even to hire them at all.
Conventional economic theory was not able to integrate the insights of Keynesian economics.
Many visitors to the museum at Auschwitz are struck by the fact that, during the Second World War, the German Nazis managed to integrate the extermination of millions of people into the normal functioning of their society.
In the 1960s many American public schools were ordered to integrate, which means to allow non-white children to attend schools that were previously only attended by whites.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cognition'.
Charles Dickens was a social reformer who wanted to integrate the lower classes into society rather than keeping them outside of it.
Due to the scarcity of mixed race individuals in the South, Confederate leaders believed that by giving African-Americans equal rights they would be able to integrate into society.
In the years following the civil rights movement of the 1960s, there was a dramatic increase in racial integration.
At the beginning of the 20th century, African-Americans were still struggling to integrate into society.
Nations tend to integrate their women better into the political process:
The bill would have integrated Arizona's schools and public buildings such as parks, libraries and town halls.
However, even after decades of struggle, little progress had been made in integrating the legal systems of the two countries.
The challenge of the modern world is to find ways to integrate these revolutionary changes with our own deepest values and traditions.
His beliefs represented a complete break from the past, the kind of total change in thought and action that could only be accomplished by a charismatic individual such as himself.
The legal consequence of not integrating may be segregation, in which case the minorities are forced to stay within their own communities and not interact with the rest of society.
There were many attempts by some states to integrate the refugees into the local population.
However, the true causes of the French revolution have still not been agreed upon by historians, as theories of structural limitations such as deficits in food supply, the need to integrate borders and the impact of popular ideas from America have all been integrated into one
In the second half of the twentieth century, women were increasingly integrated into all aspects of society.
One particularly important invention that helped the Industrial Revolution was the steam engine.
Before long, however, Native Americans began to integrate into the colony's culture.
The Equal Rights Movement was about integrating women into all aspects of society.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fascism'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word
One easy way is to integrate the function into a standard high school or even elementary school curriculum.
The Dutch have successfully integrated their traditional windmills into modern society with electricity proving a useful by-product.
As a doctor you must integrate all the information.
At that time the countries of the world were just beginning to integrate African systems in education and other systems.
His writings helped to integrate the ideas of Darwin into society, because he expressed them in ways that people found easy to understand.
These four conditions had not been integrated into a social model by the ruling classes until the 1960s.
The Marxist theory that people's lives are controlled by the society in which they live integrate well with the idea of human sociobiology.
The terrorists spent nearly half a decade trying to integrate themselves into the society, but soon found that they were socially,politically and economically alienated from the rest of the German people.
Celtic has influenced English in many ways, such as the word window which comes from the word 'wenden', a German word meaning wind eye, which in turn was borrowed from the Celtic language.
No textbook has managed to integrate all the discoveries that have revolutionized the understanding of our origins in the last twenty years.
It was a time when people of colour were beginning to ask why they should integrate into a society that had treated them as second-class citizens, if citizens at all.
As parts of New York became increasingly Irish, the policing had to be done more by the Irish, for the Irish; and this often meant compromises had to be made between Irish and Irish.
I. Will. Not.
As a consequence we are able to put into effect policies that integrate the various races.
Many Latin Americans have been arriving in the united states of America, and the United States government is attempting to integrate them into mainstream American society.
In the former Yugoslavia, all students must learn both Croatian and Serbian.
For a long time, the two distinctive languages of Spain-Castilian and Catalan-were seen as something to integrate.
For a while, the religious authorities tried to integrate the Protestants into Catholic life.
In the 1960s and 1970s many of these immigrants were involved in ethnic political groups that worked to integrate their ideas into native Dutch society.
We have to integrate the findings of many research teams into a readable account that is interesting to lay people.
She was an American who encouraged the integration of the several races into one society.
The early Chinese developed the first functional system of human rights, although many cultures subsequently integrated the concept into their legal codes.
Also, the European Union is aiming to integrate Eastern European economies into its own.
Problems arise when brain injured people are integrated back into society.
The Royal Navy failed to integrate women in their fleet.
The Nazis developed an elaborate and efficient bureaucracy to integrate Germans and non-Germans.
It refers to a situation when one element of a system is affected by a change in another element of that system.
For much of the time after its independence in the 1700s, Haiti was under the control of France.
The first wave was the African American movement for civil rights which saw African Americans strive to gain equal rights under the law in a series of campaigns from the 19th century until the early 20th century.
In the United States, African American authors attempted to write within the prevailing white, Euro-centric culture, and did not necessarily want to integrate their works within a "separate but equal" literary tradition.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "cause".
There were a number of causes of the French Revolution.
Technology in the ancient world was not very sophisticated and human effort was used for most construction projects.
With the support of the Church, it became easier to integrate Christianity into the local cultures.
However, after the Civil War the South's economic way of life was bankrupt and its society shattered.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "unification".
The slave trade was abolished in the British Empire in 1807, but it wasn't until the Slavery Abolition Act of 1833 that slavery itself was finally abolished, and the slaves themselves were to be given full rights as citizens of Britain.
In December 1559 Francis II died and Mary's cousin Elizabeth became the new English
African American political leaders expected that their enhanced status after the Civil War would lead to an integration of the races in every aspect of life.
However, it finally was the influence of a brilliant 19th-century Arab philosopher that integrated each of these views into one cohesive whole.
The "incest taboo"' is a term used by anthropologists to refer to the wide cultural ban on incest, whether it is partial or complete.
The heart is the most integrated organ in the human body, and it is also the organ responsible for creating and sustaining life itself.
A ballet typically integrates music, choreography, costumes and scenery to tell a story.
Race relations, for instance, have undergone a transformation in the U.S. since the Civil Rights
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'technology'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'organisation'.
However, the main feature of the Church is its inability to effectively integrate spirituality into a person's life.
Integrated circuit, or IC, is a small electronic circuit manufactured using modern technology.
It was the first of what became a long-running series and follows the life of psychologist and former FBI agent Fox Mulder as he tries to investigate and explain strange, often supernatural events while being supervised by his skeptic partner, FBI agent Dana
"Our aim is to integrate the theory of value into a general economic theory in the same way that sidelines, for example, have been integrated into the study of industry."
"That's how manmade laws are often integrated by society and become cultural".
When this change was made, the governments could integrate a war economy into a peacetime economy much more easily because production could continue.
It is important that the design of the telescope be as integrated as possible.
The French feared that the German implementation of an integrated army and war plans would leave them at a disadvantage.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'terrorist'.
Sensing that this could be the end of the Church's power in England, he tried to integrate himself with the court of King Henry VII by assisting in the arrest of several of his enemies.
Rome's integration of his Semitic captives into his armies was a revolutionary development in warfare that benefited greatly from their talents.
In the 1960s, many countries tried to quickly industrialize, but were unable to do so without first modernizing their financial systems.


#introduce

Professor:The television series "Breaking Bad" introduces the main character Walter White, a chemistry teacher who after being diagnosed with cancer decides to start producing and selling methamphetamine.
The Reformation started with the introduction of the printing press, making Martin Luther's ideas widely public.
The theory of the People's Front of Judea claiming that the building of inscriptions on walls was a Roman practise and that Jews didn't need to introduce writing into their Holy Temple in order to gain favor with the Romans is certainly historically inaccurate.
The spread of inventions and innovations such as the assembly line technique allowed factories to produce far more goods than previously possible, thus introducing a heightened consumer culture.
Professor Z. does not introduce himself but briskly asks you if you think you have what it takes to become one of the chosen.
Before the word processor, we were all typing and printing on a typewriter. It had its own set of keys that was different from the keyboard used for words, with no less than 10 extra keys.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideology'.
Unfortunately, their attempt to introduce a standing professional army filled with landless younger sons led to the overthrow of the system.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'invasion'.
The invasion of England was a major turning point in European history.
And there is also evidence that the New Stone Age, or Neolithic Age, began when some individual in the Middle East introduced farming to his tribe.
In the next few years, these women will be able to introduce their male friends to each other and share their personal stories.
The findings also introduce another element into the debate on the origins of the English: the Vikings.
During the first half of the twentieth century, cars were introduced in stages on to the streets of cities such as London and New York.
In the 1920s, the United States government passed a law prohibiting the manufacturing, transportation or selling of alcoholic drinks.
And even when they do introduce more teachers, they probably take them away from other subjects.
One of the most difficult things to do is introduce an innovation that people aren't ready for yet.
It was necessary to introduce a strong leader to prevent the country falling into disarray and to keep the Empire whole.
It is the ability of humans to self-reflect and to introspect that marks the difference between us and animals.
The great achievement of the period 1945-1975 was the introduction of market economy based on private ownership.
The New Age groups have introduced the idea that we create our own reality.
This raised the question of whether humans had been wiped out by a single cataclysmic event, such as the biblical flood of Noah.
Unlike his father, Henry VII, who used marriages to allies to advantage in foreign affairs, Henry VIII did not introduce new aspects into the relationship between England and its neighbors.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "Victor".
The bombing of the village had been a deliberate attempt to intimidate its inhabitants, and to introduce them to the reality of life under the Taliban.
Professor: Our company has introduced a revolutionary new drug to help combating the disease.
The industry has recently introduced a new high-tecsnology product.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
One of the main causes of the French Revolution was the stagnation of the ancien regime and its failure to
By the late 18th century, there was quite a bit of trade in America, especially along the Atlantic coastline.
The major difficulty in reintroducing the gray wolf is that the animal has been extinct in the United States for hundreds of years.
In the 1880s ‘modernism' was given its name and artists began introducing bits of wood and other non-traditional materials into their work.
The tradition of the Roman Triumph introduced by Scipio Africanus after his victory over Carthage in the Second Punic War.
The purpose of the May Fourth Movement was to introduce fresh Western ideas into China.
The new technology was eagerly introduced into wealthy private residences.
The introduction of gunpowder and the printing press had a great effect on medieval warfare.
When aristocratic patrons were no longer available to commission artworks, artists had to turn to other sources, namely the middle classes who were primarily interested in portraits of themselves and their families
The talk was clearly designed to introduce students of the arts to the techniques of the natural sciences.
The element with the highest atomic number that is not radioactive is introduced by Carl Wilhelm Scheele in 1782.
Kenya was the first African country to introduce a multi-party system.
However, by the year 1910 European countries began to introduce restriction on immigration.
Nowadays, babies born at less than 1.5kg (3.3lbs) are rarely given medical treatment, to introduce invasive techniques would be unethical.
The first ruler to introduce the idea of preventing poverty was Emperor Augustus.
The act of introducing something to someone or something means you make them acquainted with each other.
If McCain introduces a bill, it will probably fail.
Professor: The Cuban missile crisis, physicists released dozens of scientific papers to introduce the field's recent discoveries, including the neutron, and the idea of isospin.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "emerge".
Charles Goodyear, Jr. was the first person to successfully introduce rubber to the American public.
The syllabuses of most universities in the developed world rarely introduce students to any ideas that were generated before 1900.
When the Dutch East India Company was founded in 1602, it effectively introduced monopolistic capitalism to the world.
In its original sense, the word "evolution" introduced into biology not long after Charles Darwin's publication of his theory.
They must introduce private medical insurance and encourage medical schools to open in the provinces.
It is even suggested that the Church may have intentionally introduced some of the errors into the Bible in order to prevent readers from understanding its true message.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "neurologists".
His main field of study is neuroscience and he specialises in memory loss and Alzheimers.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "principle".
The common law of crimes was introduced in these islands around the 12th century.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'orchestra'.
The Augustan Age, which followed the turmoil of the Roman Civil War, was a time of social and political stability when Augustus' introduced many new reforms.
The goal of the council was to introduce market reforms in an attempt to pull Hungary out of its post-Communist slump.
But it is important to remember that these legal ideas were often first introduced in the courts by private litigants, not the government.
The Boers, however, would introduce an extremely controversial piece of legislation.
To introduce private investment into health care would be a mistake.
The Black Death is thought to have been introduced into Europe by Genoese and Venetian merchants.
The Puritans were a group of religious refugees fleeing from religious persecution in the Catholic Church who wished to introduce their own form of Protestantism to the New World.
The last person executed at the Tower of London was American born Ruth Ellis, who was famously the last woman to be executed in England when she was hanged in 1955 for shooting her lover.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'characteristic'.
The physics of half a century ago introduced the concept of antiparticles, which were essentially the same as particles, except they had opposite charges.
The idea of an innate tendency towards aggression, which Senator Gramm introduced into the debate, is very much open to question.
However, their use of the term "gene" introduced an element of determinism that was at odds with Darwin's vision of a natural world in which plants and animals might have peculiarities but weren't fixed in stone.
Higher education in the liberal arts would introduce students to the knowledge
In 1901, Wilbur and Orville Wright introduced the first airplane.
The early middle ages saw the introduction of hardy and aggressive barbarian tribes from northern Europe into Roman territory.
The way the Egyptians measured area was by chiseling hieroglyphs on a stone, which could be around fifty to a stone, or more.
It is possible that these were writing systems used to introduce various gods or other important figures in a human's life.
In the late 20th century, many technology companies introduced computers into their production lines.
In the period before his overthrow in the coup of 1952, Mossadegh faced a power struggle primarily between his support of Islamists and Tudeh Party on one side and the royalist-backed conservatives in the parliament on the other.
He'd been sent to England by his people to introduce them to Western culture and philosophies.
Alternatively, the writer could introduce a foreign element—a person, object or idea— that fires her imagination.
The English introduced the potato to Ireland in the 16th century, and it was adopted as a common food under the oppressive English rule.
The beginning of the 17th century saw the introduction of a new religion that forbade drinking alcohol, as well as tea and coffee.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "Sedgwick".
During this time, the Jacobins also continued to oppress anyone they considered an enemy, and to introduce new laws such as outlawing emigration (moving away from France) and allowing forced labor.
The biggest problem with nuclear power is how to dispose of the spent fuel, which is produced primarily during the generation of electricity.
The king decided to introduce representative democracy into England.
Henry VIII was the first English king to introduce the English language into the law courts.
But under it I recognize the style of William Shakespeare, whose use of language lends itself to this method of abbreviation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "Pentateuch".
The term "red tide" refers to the occurrence of massive concentrations of a single marine species.
The process of artificial selection allows people to introduce new traits into a population.
Religion has been introduced as a major cause of war in human history, especially in the past few thousand years.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'field'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reform".
The underground churches that had been introduced by the persecuted Christians copied the layout of the catacombs where the original Christians had worshipped, with a small altar at the end of a crooked and twisty path.
But this, in turn, introduced new sources of strife as colonists struggled with each other and the inhabitants for control of resources and land.
It is thought that the first humans to arrive in Australia approximately 40,000 years ago introduced the animals they encountered there to the rest of the world.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'principality'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "controversial".
He's one of the most intelligent people I've ever had the pleasure of introducing you to.
The women's suffrage movement introduced the idea of the social butterfly, a woman who pursued such masculine activities as smoking and playing sports in public.
Due to popular demand, the museum is introducing a new exhibit in the wing of modern art.
But the most important move that helped to introduce a free market was the decision by the Thatcher government in 1980 to allow council tenants to buy their council houses at a discount of more than 50% of the house value.


#invariably

It was difficult to say what the weather would be like on a day-to-day basis, but it was invariably rainy in Frankfurt in late September.
For a long time, doctors had simply been using the most effective treatments they could think of and applying them to patients, mostly using a hit-and-miss approach.
There is no question that combustion in a planet's atmosphere will eventually turn into steam, which then turns into rain, which then runs off, carrying whatever the combustion has turned into, like carbon dioxide and other gases, into the rivers, lakes,
But slavery was always looked on as an evil, and certainly slavery in the sense that we know it today, in which an entire race of people are kept in bondage and ownership of another race is morally repugnant to everyone.
In most computer programs a sort process is used and it is invariably the bubblesort.
‘Invariably' is always an adverb.
Trees, owing to their yearly growth, were almost as hard to kill as mountains; they could, for instance, usually survive fire, which by itself could not ordinarily kill them; but if a tree was burned to the root, it died
He was convinced of the need to improve the sanitary conditions in Baghdad, and thought that doing so would aid his plan for a modernized Iraq, which would in turn help the British Empire win the war against the Ottoman Empire, which he felt
"The law of supply and demand in my experience has been invariably correct," the Professor says.
Apostasy, the rejection of a religious or political belief, is usually punished by death in these types of societies.
One thing was invariably true about the peasants: when they were given the chance, they moved to better land,
Once the Nazis came to power in 1933, their ruthless intimidation of the German populace and their equally brutal treatment of anyone who opposed them became the norm, and invasion became inevitable.
This attitude has been and still is a strong one in American society: the public schools have always been expected to provide a common culture and educational experience for all children, whatever their backgrounds.
It was common for a man's wealth to be measured according to the number of his livestock, and this sometimes led to quarrels and fights between neighbours with similar numbers of animals, which were invariably less decisive than the fight between your friend and the
And, for reasons of self-aggrandisement, every medieval monarch in Europe would invariably claim to be a descendant of one of the Three Kings.
Neoclassical economics tends to see exchange in zero-sum terms: if one person gains, another necessarily loses.
Professor: In other words the numbers that describe the universe are rational, or can be expressed as a ratio of two whole numbers.
The poor Africans in the barbershop, for example, will almost invariably have very different political views from the rich ones in the coffee shops.
The theory of evolution, which was propounded mainly by Charles Darwin, holds that in all organisms, from bacteria to humans, whatever changes occur occur inevitably.
The king was always able to prevent the building of any bridge that might aid an invading army in crossing the river,invariably on the grounds of national security.
The writings of Rhetoricians such as Kenneth Burke and Richard Weaver advocated a return to the values of the ancient civilized world. Invariably they mean Greco-Roman civilization.
'The destructive capacity of the weapons has increased almost '
Many Arabs at that time were eager to acquire an education, and the spread of printing presses made books cheap and abundant, which meant that virtually no one was prevented from reading the Bible in their own language...
The First World War was used by all the states involved, each for its own purposes and each believing the war would be a short one, to expand.
Invariably, these types of groups are vigilantes in one way or another.
The global village will lead to a standardized world where everyone watches the same TV shows, wears the same fashions, and believes the same things.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inaction'.
In these circumstances the king was necessarily a very powerful person, whose orders were not only usually obeyed immediately, but also invaribly obeyed.
The First World War was often called the war to end all wars. Invariably, when war broke out again it was with the same wrongheaded belief that this time things would be different.
It was Drake's presumption that the humans would need a replacement spacecraft and dock to leave the planet. This proved to be correct.
The fact that the media is run mainly by capitalists dictates what is in the best interests of the owners, not what is in the best interests of society as a whole.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'parliamentary'.
'Invariably' the male and female strangers would arrive and be seated in one of these four positions.
The Fascists' noisy marches created an air of excitement throughout the country; invariably they ended in a series of riots that were ruthlessly crushed by the police.
The concept of the bill of rights was to place certain basic restrictions on government,invariably at the expense of personal freedom.
Many evolutionary biologists believe the use of statistics allows them to determine with near-certainty which traits in a population are going to be successful and which ones are not.
The simultaneous selling of both types of shares by all investors soon brought the market back to its previous highs, a phenomenon known as short covering, or also as an example of herding behaviour.
The results of the study are not invariable and are often difficult to interpret.
An internal combustion engine using petrol was developed in the 19th century and was continually improved.invariably, these cars burned a lot of fuel.
The theories of predeterminism and genetic determinism that the geneticists were defending, as well as the theory of social evolution and progress that the social historians were defending, are all examples of historical ideas or theories that were defended by these two groups
It is difficult to trace the history of Ireland from the earliest times because the Irish were such story-tellers that they would keep changing the story to include their favourite hero in a favourable light.
For plant cells, the plasma membrane is also an envelope, but in this case, the whole cell is surrounded by a rigid wall.
The slave trade was outlawed in stronger countries but it continued and even increased in weaker countries, which were called the slave trade ‘pockets'.
It was clear that one place, preferably a large and wealthy one like Britain or the United States, would end up being the new centre of the world. This place, it was invariably assumed, would be nothing less than democratic and capitalist.
We have always found pottery shards, arrowheads, stone tools, and other "primitive" items in the soil layers deposited during the Woodland period. These items invariably were made by people who were primarily hunter-gatherers.
In these parliaments the cities, not the nobles, became the centers of power; and the great merchant families, whose wealth had grown so rapidly and visibly since the Middle Ages, gained more and more control of their home governments
This century has seen the collapse of several Communist governments; this was an event that was invariably followed by years of in-fighting, civil war, and other problems.
In physics, the speed of light is regarded as a maximum speed: All measurements of distance are related to the speed of light;
The Nazis believed that the Red Cross visits were an invariable part of war so were not necessary.
‘The law says you must put on your seat belt while driving your car,' said the driving instructor, ‘and if you don't, there are severe legal implications.
Although the United States was not involved in World War I, it did suffer the tragedy of an attack on its soil: a bomb was dropped on a munitions plant in the town of Marion, Ohio by a hot air balloon designed and used for that
The foundations of the Church's power were poorly understood by most of the population; casting clerical spells was still considered an unholy and dangerous activity, and one that inevitably pointed to corruption of the worst kind- demonic.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'discretion'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'abstract'.
The thunderstorms of our area are nearly invariable in the summer.
It is "invariably" a series of unfortunate events that leads to a person going on the streets.
This is the man we want, he is invariably dynamic and the ideas are always good ones.
The German army was forced into an almost entirely defensive role, frustrating the Kaiser as he notoriously favored open warfare and found this waiting around to be 'invariably' dull.
Some of the medical experiments carried out on concentration camp prisoners were cruel and unethical in the opinion of the victims, but we have to ask what was known at the time and the fact remains that some of these experiments have led to medical breakthroughs which
The earliest flutes were made from the bones of birds and vary considerably in design, although they are all alike in that they produce a monotone sound
Without any free time, evening and weekend work was the only way to meet the insatiable demand of the military-industrial complex, with its endless string of wars.
The peasants could not vote, for the rich controlled the government, and the poor were, in many cases, altogether powerless and impoverished and were, as a consequence, invariably repressed.
Invariably, men and women who are downtrodden or from a poor background aspire to move up the social or economic ladder.
Professor: The birth of monotheism in its various forms, such as Judaism, Christianity and Islam, had unavoidable metaphysical implications: there could be only one god, which made all other gods false.
Slavery would exist in Europe until the 19th century and in Africa, the Middle East and parts of Asia it still exists now, as it's unlikely that it will ever disappear completely.
The discovery of the so-called dark matter, whose existence is an invariable part of our present theories, would force a rethinking of a lot of current theories concerning the beginning of the universe.
The style, with its heavy reliance on dragon motifs, has been invariably used in all sorts of furnishings from wall hangings to carpets.
The Thirty Years' War was fought over religious issues, with Catholic, Protestant and Orthodox Christians all involved. There were no Jews among them, because Jewish settlers were not permitted in most of the German lands.
In his view, the changes brought about by the redistribution of land were sufficient to classify the English Revolution as a full-scale revolution; hence, every major upheaval in the standard of living for the masses was an inevitable precursor to revolution.
It seems that the presence of the soldiers had the effect of making the lawbreakers more rebellious, and in some cases more violent, than they would have been otherwise - a not unexpected result when soldiers are sent to do a policeman's job, but
The nature of human personality is such that deliberate harm is often done to people who are envied and disliked and this invariably causes a destructive cycle of envy, dislike and further harm.
It's an illusion that the intelligent always rule wisely, for the unintelligent are just as invariable in their stupidity.
Professor: He responded by trying to rule the country more or less as a dictator, but inevitably this policy led to the collapse of his regime in 1848.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'proceed'.
Invariably, the losers of each rebellion were executed and their possessions redistributed to the victors.
Orbital mechanics dictates that as one body orbits around another, it will experience an acceleration towards it, which I will call gravity.
The case of the small fishing village of Hastings shows that the ban on smoking in public places in England has had no beneficial effects.
The religions of ancient Mesopotamia were inevitably tied to the city-states in which they developed.
The doctrine of papal infallibility is a belief that is held absolutely true by all churches who believe in Catholicism, under the Catholic theology God does not make mistakes or errors when he speaks to his church the first time through his son Jesus Christ or
The government officials and their children, of course, traveled first-class on the train, while the factory workers continued to travel third-class, or not at all.
Invariably, human nature is portrayed as greed and struggle.
After an affair they had in London, Charles Dickens was about to marry her, but her character proved too volatile and she soon after eloped with an English army officer; this seemed only to invigorate her and her writing.
Their undersea mining operation was entirely dependent on an imported labor force, and as such it was a custom-built machine for breeding resentment and inevitably exploding into violence.
The basic need for food, shelter and clothing will invariably always remain with humanity.
The last sentence is as follows:
The concept of human nature is fundamentally important in sociology and it centers on the idea that humans, whether in the past or present, under all circumstances and in all cultures, are or tend to be motivated toward certain goals that are desirable and should be
George Orwell once said that the future of a society can be told by how it treats its children.
Sometimes new diseases would inevitably spring up among populations for which the old vaccines no longer worked.
The attack on the World Trade Centre was carried out by terrorists, who are by their very nature invariably entwined with political issues.
The most common source of malnutrition for children in the developing world is the long-term consumption of a diet lacking in vitamins and minerals. This problem is invariable linked to a deficiency in diet.
Professor: Most people, for example, find that it is always better to tell the truth than to lie and most judges tend to assume that this is the case, and will not believe a defendant if he or she tells a lie in court.
The first mistake, according to the Church, is to think that something bad will inevitably happen if you break one of these laws.
Incarceration reduces crime, for the simple reason that most criminals are cowardly creatures who avoid danger whenever possible.
In contrast, the Church of England at the time was more of a private club, with its adherents' Catholicism as much a matter of family tradition and upbringing as anything else.
But in rural areas women were, as they still are today, often paid less than men for doing the same job because it was "woman's work".
The invasion of England was an attempt to resolve the English problem once and for all, but it proved inevitably unsuccessful.
It is not possible to produce a sentence with the word "invariably"
The theory of biological evolution, which states that all living things evolved naturally from single-celled organisms, is the only theory that can account for the wide range of fossil evidence that we find in the layers of the Earth.
The foundation's grants are given with no strings attached, and the board attempts to make its decisions independently of outside influences, which some have criticized as making it ineffective, as its grantees are invariably already well established in their fields.
The British usually responded to atrocities by executing the individuals responsible, but the French often took groups of indigenous men invariable age 18 and above hostage.
Governments had always feared free expression: it could lead to dissent, and possibly revolution, which is why the right to free speech was so hard won, and so frequently violated.


#invert

Most inverts, such as the common garden snail and the equally common oak tree, are sessile, meaning they cannot move independently.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "realize".
Invert sugar syrup can be made by mixing an equal volume of hot water and sugar, cooling and then letting time pass.
Inverted snails have an organ called the mantle, which covers the upper surface of the snail and extends a little way down the other surface.
This means that potential inversion might be a fairly common phenomenon.
The Atlantic slave trade, which forcibly transported black slaves from their homes in Africa across the Atlantic to places like the Caribbean and North America to work on plantations was finally banned in 1807.
Invert sugar is also known as "inverted sugar", "reactive sugar", or "glucose syrup".
Carbon disulfide, a colorless, Toxic and volatile liquid used in the industrial manufacture of at glass, rubber and electrical supplies
And finally we have the invert, which involves turning a sentence into a question by switching the subject and the auxiliary verb
Sugar is partially invert when it is extracted from sugar beets or sugar cane.
It is a very useful process where materials which are soluble or at least deformable in one solid state, such as glass, become fluid when the temperature is raised and then solidify with an inverted structure when cooled.
Inversion layers in the atmosphere are primarily layers of unusually dense and stable air that form above a current weather condition. They are the opposite of what is currently happening in terms of the weather.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
The use of the invert technique was developed by Charles Joseph, Comte de Guibert, a French artillery officer.
"Cure for a Vicious Mind" by Ken Kesey is a book about prison, and prison is where the main character, Jack Forman, wants to live because being there is less painful than his outside world.
The invert is the female member of a homosexual couple and is a term taken from animal behavioural studies.
"I wish I had some invert sugar to give you," she would sayif we asked her for it; and when we were having snow-ball contests she was always afraid that somebody would get hurt.
Lavoisier was a brilliant chemist, and he made valuable contributions to our knowledge of oxygen, atmospheric pressure and calorific quantities in inverts.
Some other organs, such as the gall bladder and the hypophysis (the part of the brain that releases hormones) also invert at a later stage.
The stone is in perfect condition; there are no cracks or chips in it, no matter how much you invert it, nothing happens.
However, at the beginning of the 20th century, it was discovered that by inverting the process that sugars go through they can be converted to ethanol and then to gasoline which are the main ingredients in petrol.
This would also explain why there are several places in Central and South America that have remained isolated well into modern times, such as the Amazon Basin.
A vaccine specifically created to immunize against this virus has not yet been developed because the chemical nature of the invert sugar has not been elucidated.
Lewis argued that in an industrial society it is the urban areas which determine social mores, and it is in the urban areas that degeneracy and inversion are most common.
Snow white and dwarf invert the traditional fairy tale characters by having the beautiful heroine Snow White and the handsome prince invert the gender roles as dwarfs are traditionally ugly.
Somebody who is bovver-boy is most certainly not somebody who is faint hearted
Although the African goliath beetle can't bite or sting, it uses a different technique to kill its prey: some species of goliath beetles roll the carcasses of their prey (including other insects and small animals) into a ball and then swallow
Inverting small portions of the images gave a dramatic improvement.
The low pressure at the base of the clouds and the high pressure at their tops mean that energy is transferred uphill, invertting the normal decrease in temperature with height.
A French chemist,. Dominican priest and wine dealer named Louis Pasteur in the mid-1800s.
A girl's maternal and paternal great-grandparents are the inverts.
Professor: Go on, try another.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "intrinsically".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'allies'.
To prove his point, he showed that warmer water in the North Atlantic had "inverted" the normal patterns of the Jet Stream.
Inverting the effect of signals from the environment, the brain can learn information that would otherwise be inaccessible to it.
'Civil disobedience' is one of the few examples of invert logic employed by modern man.
The invert mounted the table on all fours and squirted his milk into the ladies' laps.
A colorless, odorless, sweet liquid, invert sugar consists of fructose and glucose.
Nowadays people are free to pursue ‘inverted' gender roles if they wish, without being stigmatized or persecuted in any way
"Invert" was a general term that could be applied to several different types of inverts, including sexual inverts, political inverts, social inverts and moral inverts.
Glaciers tend to invert, or bury, organic materials such as wood and leaves.
The invert was suddenly flipped onto its back and it found itself staring at its opponent's weapon poking into its body pinned against the ground.
Invert sugars can be used in a wide variety of baked good to improve texture, taste, and nutrition.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'levitate'.
Benford's speculations about the past were different from Tradon's. Benford's group didn't believe that the inverts had been an experiment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'formidable'.
Inverting the magnetic field prevented more charged solar particles from entering the atmosphere and so prevented more ionising radiation on the ground.
intelligent inverts were less likely to breed
The election was a choice between Liberal or Conservative invert!
Inverting the usual procedure, the well-prepared mountaineer can use the Northern Lights to find protection from the sun's rays.
The mixture is then gently heated until a homogenous liquid of invert sugar is formed.
The unhappy truth was that rather than a glorious revolution to improve the lot of all citizens, the French Revolution had simply turned into a series of increasingly vicious power struggles.
The invert is an individual who has sexual interest in someone that they would normally be sexually attracted to of the 'opposite gender.'
Invert sugar is created by inversion of sucrose.
"Invert" is a word used by the early British ornithologists to describe a type of bird.
Scandal erupted when it was learned that several members of the university staff had engaged in a Cover-up, reinstating students who had failed their classes due to symptoms of chronic fatigue and in some cases, drug addictions.
The inversion of control in the case of a steam engine signifies that pushing the governor button slows down the flywheel increasing the pressure of steam in the boiler.
Knowledge of fractions is particularly useful when scaling a mountain, as mountaineers frequently have to invert fractions to calculate the amount of rope they will need.
Invert sugars are just the mirror reflection of ordinary sugars and have the same sweetness but are metabolized differently, being less efficient at converting into body fat.
At this time, Canada was producing about 90% of the world's invert sugar, which is a syrup that is 50% sucrose.
Invert is a term used to describe a group of sugars.
Impoverished peasants invert the social pyramid, placing themselves on a level with the wealthy landowners.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'german'.
The whole process was facilitated by a rare chemical reaction in which an acid and base group exchanged roles, a physical inversion that mirrored the psychological inversion of values that made it all possible.
The invert creates a utopian vision of society in which homosexuality is the main, or perhaps only, feature.
Inverting lenses could only compensate for nearsightedness; they would be of no help for farsighted people.
The process of inversion meant that these possessions became the property of the church.
The inversion of control was a technique she learned when she was working for the organisation.
The inversion of the magnetic field would severely interfere with the normal functioning of compasses.
Laws against homosexual activity were also unenforced.
The invert feeds blood into a membrane and the inversion of the molecule takes place within it.
The invert is popularly conceived of as a somewhat hysterical masculine woman.
The moral inversion that occurred during the Victorian period caused many to look back at the morals of ancient Greece and Rome with great approval.
Invert sugar is invertible with sugar.
They discovered that the atoms consist of electrons and smaller particles called protons and neutrons. These in turn are made up of smaller particles called quarks.
Eggs contain almost half the protein, minerals, and vitamins of the equivalent volume of milk, with a higher proportion of healthy unsaturated fat.
The natives would have to make an invert with the Spanish soldiers standing guard.
The invert was supposed to be a woman who turned her body into a man's, and the invert loved other inverts, hence the women loving women part.
"Warm" and "cold" don't really describe portion size well but you'll see that on the curves.
The invert is a human who was born in an external cavity such as your stomach, and was not pushed out.
It may involve inversion, or reversal, of the usual social hierarchies.
1:It's an invert, sir." The captain frowned.
There the matter rested, and apparently no invert after that was ever sent to the asylum.
The human soul has no invert of colour, and the racial bounds are not imparted by any inherent distinction between the mind of the Negro and that of the White.
There were many invert brothels, which specialized in homosexual men but probably had some lesbian activity as well.
The invert is a figure who exists outside of normal morality.
While invert sugar is not quite as sweet as ordinary white sugar, it doesn't caramelize when heated, and so cannot be used for coating or for candy-making.
The second invert inverts the first, and the third invert inverts the second.
The invert of a relation (not its inverse) is the relation that has the same domain and range as the original, but which satisfies
The large amount of remaining invert sugar behind causes the now very sweet wine to continue fermenting.
Within the 19th century discourses of science, invert sexuality was a theory that used to explain homosexuality.
The invert is a sexual pervert, who is attracted to people of their own gender."
One of the most influential inverts in history might be Oscar Wilde, the Anglo-Irish writer and poet.
The term "paleolithic" means "old stone age", which implies that the neolithic era, or new stone age, is a later period in human development.
The invert will get out on the next stoop.
An invert is somebody who is attracted to someone of the same gender; an invert was, at the time, a polite way of saying that someone was gay.
The political inversion of policies implemented by Alexander III had made the lives of peasants much worse.
Inverting lenses increases their focus and so although the seventeenth-century optical scientist, Hans Lippershey, is credited with developing the telescope, it was in fact an Italian spectacle-maker, who in 1608 used an inverted pair of spect
Inverting the singular/plural of a noun flips singular "it" to plural "they", and plural "they" to singular "it."
The Russian alphabet has thirty letters and each letter has a masculine and feminine form.


#inveterate

Inveterate Shakespearean actor, Sir John Gielgud once said: "Finally I feel I've got the right face for all these wonderfully words."
The historian is an inveterate opponent of capital punishment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'impoverished'.
In Victorian Britain, there was a great social divide between the rich and poor, with many impoverished people living in slums.
They made a dead set at the border fences, never wavering from their route, and smashing an inveterate path through any obstacles, they say it was amazing to see.
He was an inveterate gambler, constantly running up debts.
The short man turns toward you and stares at you in surprise for a few seconds. Then he bursts out laughing.
"Of a person, having a tendency to habitually disagree or criticize without any intention of acting on the criticism."
He enjoyed hunting and became an inveterate hunter.
Inveterate village drinkers dried out in Dorset during the 18th century.
He is an inveterate collector of antique clocks.
These inveterate opponents were ruthlessly suppressed by the regime.
The inveterate gambler always loses.
The belief that the earth is at the centre of the universe was as inveterate in the Middle Ages as the belief in a flat earth.
The inveterate gambler finally paid off his debts by selling a small piece of land
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "elite".
The Civil Rights movement achieved many objectives, such as desegregating schools and public transportation, but the most inveterate segregationists wouldn't give up their beliefs easily.
The central challenge we face in this state is what to do about an ingrained, inveterate problem like gambling.
Graham's inveterate optimism was also a factor, but a more important one was his ability to convince the well-to-do English citizens to give him money.
He was an inveterate gambler. In other words, he had a serious gambling problem.
He had been an inveterate gambler, and at his death left huge gambling debts.
One of the most famous portrayals of an inveterate liar is found in William Shakespeare's play "The Comedy of Errors".
It's an inveterate habit of his. He always takes the same route to work, retracing his steps whenever he sees something interesting.
The id is probably the most well known part of the human mind. It is present in all people from birth, and it is the part of our personality that desires immediate satisfaction of wants and needs.
The Dutch Republic, which was inveterately hostile to Spain, benefited most immediately from its intervention.
The "The Inn at the End of the World" is dedicated to the inveterate traveller.
The most eminent opponents of civil rights, such as Strom Thurmond, had been inveterate racists since the early part of their careers.
Your inveterate womanizing is a well-known fact, and I shudder to think of the consequences should you recklessly spread diseases throughout the land.
He had a inveterate dislike of the French that bordered on xenophobia
During the first half of the 18th century, Spain was by far the leading military and economic power in Europe. The war severely strained Spain's finances and it cut deeply into the country's gold reserves, but was not inveterate.
He was an incurable romantic who had an inveterate tendency to fall in love with unattainable women.
His inveterate gambling habit led him to financial ruin.
The life of a rag-picker in the city was a fairly lucrative one for a poor rural person in the nineteenth century, because the rural population had very little to no waste disposal.
Inveterate Liars lie habitually and cannot be believed under any circumstances.
The inveterate gambler was trying to convince his friends to go into business with him, a new casino.
The division of Europe into two hostile military camps emerged as a result of the long-term inveterate enmity between France and Germany.
The United States' policy of containment was a reaction to the spread of Communism into Eastern Europe, Southeast Asia and partly into Korea.
However, few of them were able to remain in the area and these became an inveterate thorn in the side of the government for decades.
A: James was an inveterate gambler, he's lose all their savings, his wife's jewelry and even their clock.
It was a tragic story about an old man and his inveterate gambler son.
Cicero is considered to be one of the greatest orators and lawyers
Inveterate liars often believe their own falsehoods.
This inveterate gambler was so wealthy that he owned several hundred packs of playing cards, each custom-made and decorated by hand.
The historian Paul Johnson has described Oliver Cromwell as an inveterate reformer, although he's also criticised for engaging in acts of religious persecution during his nine-year personal dictatorship.
His inveterate suspicion of the French is well known.
Inveterate gamblers form the core of the customer base here.
The Church's opposition to the new art form was inveterate and passionate.
Furthermore, the practice was inveterate in Britain and France.
The king's chief minister was the inveterate Cavour.
Inveterate gambling is a common topic of crime stories; it enriched the plot of "Casino" and destroyed the protagonist of "The Lady Vanishes".
His inveterate tendency to read the instructions, no matter how briefly he had been reminded of them at bedtime, saved his life.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vanguard'.
Professor: John lost his temper and became an inveterate smoker. Inveterate means "deep-rooted".
The Boers were known as an inveterate people.
They were inveterate liars.
The inveterate gambler finally found his weakness
One of the most inveterate opponents of such a settlement was Oliver Cromwell,
The army is attacking an invterate and determined enemy which has the sympathy of the local population.
"Apparently he was an inveterate liar," Margo says.
He was an inveterate gambler who squandered family fortune.
Inveterate gambler Charles Wells is suspected of embezzling $2000 from the bank he worked for.
The mayor was an inveterate alcoholic, but he managed to always show up, lucid and in a suit, to make important announcements.
Various philosophers and social reformers in the eighteenth century had made inveterate attempts to improve human behavior.
An inveterate gambler
This was a time when Christians persecuted anyone who didn't share their beliefs.
The wound would probably cause an inveterate enemy to weaken, but it would not be instantly fatal.
Inveterate gamblers often develop an in-depth knowledge of the odds.
Inveterate liars are incapable of telling the truth even when their lies could not possibly be found out.
However, the most important aspect of the events in Harare was Mugabe's increasingly inveterate antipathy towards his political opponents.
The 16th-century Spaniards claimed Americans displayed inveterate ignorance of European technology.
All three of my grandparents were born and raised in the same town of London.
The Nazis were inveterate gamblers, risking everything on incredibly risky and impractical schemes.
Inveterate smokers are more likely than other people to develop lung cancer.
Acknowledging the many feuds and occasional acts of treachery that had passed between them, it is surprising that Churchill accepted Eden's leadership in such an inveterate way.
His father, Sir Charles Lyell, was an instinctive unbeliever, a quality known as inveterate in the family.
The peasants had rebelled many times with some inveterate leaders, but rebellions had a habit of petering out, and after each one the nobility kept more of the new money for itself.
The explorers were optimistic that they would find a village where they could trade with the people, but the area was inveterate and there was no sign of even a trace of civilisation.
It's a shame to see that your questions concerning the difference between the terms "unabated" and "inveterate" is one of the least pressing concerns of our time.
Lennon's inveterate sense of fun and his fondness
To this inveterate gambler, the existence of a fortune Cookie factory was like finding an oasis in the desert.
Louis' harsh treatment of Protestants encouraged many to flee from France in the 1550s, where they spread their inveterate hatred of the Catholic Church and of Louis in particular.
Many of the people we now consider the greatest artists and thinkers in history had a tendency to work at the same time, often on several different projects.
Qin Shi Huang was an inveterate conqueror; he refused to let himself rest until he had defeated all the armies that stood against him.
Inveterate gambler Jim is visiting a casino for the 100th time.
The National League's prejudices were the basis of an inveterate antipathy towards the Dodgers, even though among the "senior circuit" the Yankees won fourteen championships in thirty-nine years and the Cardinals nine.
Ozzy is inveterate gambler, placing bets on virtually anything.
Hayden seems to regard the Pasha as an inveterate aristocrat, while he looks on himself as a revolutionary.
The important thing is to maintain a close relationship with the US, he said, despite our inveterate dislike of them.
The Ottoman Empire's willingness to engage in commercial agriculture rather than just subsistence farming was a change that did not have significant long-term implication throughout the empire, as its landowning class had little incentive to adopt new methods.
My good friend has an inveterate fondness for reading detective stories.
He is inveterate rebel against pretty much anything that he feels challenges his freedom to act.
The French philosopher Montaigne was considered an inveterate rebel against all forms of authority, quite contrary to his own personality.
The victorious Germans are less violent and more civilized than the inveterate foe they have just overthrown.
Most of them were hardened mercenaries, notorious for their brutality and inveterate backstabbing.
He is a friend of yours, and by his own admission, an inveterate gambler, but not remotely in the class of your boyfriends.
He was an inveterate liar
Because the Rifains were such inveterate pirates, going to war with them was considered too dangerous.
His inveterate sense of fair play made him reluctant to go on strike.
"Pasteur, the inveterate enemy of all dogma, was one of the first to acknowledge his mistakes."
'Inveterate liars' is an expression that surely would have described Joseph.
A Russian composer who opposed the romantic movement, he was an inveterate alcoholic whose music sometimes incorporated atonal elements.


#mantra

However, his earlier works have been criticized for their tendency towards stating conclusions as facts and the use of what some readers see as 'mantras'.
"We should strive to be like the Enlightened One."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'artifact'.
Some militant atheists have adopted T. S. Eliot's phrase "Animal Faith" as a sort of mantra.
All through the winter of that year, the Shadow Master's soldiers spread out through Rask, kicking down doors and taking people away. In their wake, they left a grim legacy of fear and a thousand half-forgotten nightmares.
"There is no magic," Gahl said. "Magic is a lie used by the elite to keep the poor classes under control."
Professor: He stated his opinion bluntly, in a phrase that became a kind of mantra among his acolytes.
The sayings are part of the Buddhist religion and are meant for monks to repeat over and over to help them clear their minds.
The latest medical mantra is ‘first, do no harm' which means to only prescribe medication when it is absolutely necessary.
He held the belief that America was a land of opportunity and his mantra was, "If you can't do anything else, you can always carve out a life for yourself through sheer hard work."
The World Council was a sort of futuristic United Nations.
The central premise of the invasion, that Iraq was an imminent danger to the United States due to its possession of weapons of mass destruction, was a mantra among neoconservatives and within the Bush administration.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'reliable'.
The all-time record for staying awake is 18 days, yet these super-humans function primarily during the night.
For the two years I worked as a Tokyo correspondent for my newspaper, I lived in constant fear of making a mistake and having it end up being a six-word mistake.
"Where was the church five minutes before the creation of the world?" is a mantra from "The Mystery of Jesuitism".
One of his many mantras was "Be prepared."
The French Revolution had many political mantras, perhaps the most famous of which is "liberty, equality and fraternity".
He repeated the mantra "nobody loves me, my girlfriend left me, I'm an unwanted burden on my family, I have nothing to live for" over and over again.
"It's a lovely line but it's in a woman's eye / It's the smile on the face of a secret heiress."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'initiative'.
The law passed only when the mantra of "an Eight Hour Day for the Working Man" was finally chanted in an orderly fashion.
One of the main mantras of modern society is that 'free will' is extremely important and valuable, that it is something worth preserving above almost everything else.
Why am I taking this class? I should have dropped it weeks ago. All semester I've been having trouble with the reading, understanding what the authors of these books are saying...
The followers also seem to genuinely believe that chanting the mantra will prevent them from getting sick, but this is probably a result of the placebo effect.
I have to admit that I found a certain mantra helpful: "The ancient Greeks and Romans did not speak English".
The mantra of a religious cult is a phrase believed to contain supernatural powers.
Most people turn to religion for support in times of trouble, and so it is for you. Your family say their own special prayers and recite their part of the mantra too.
You ask the pro
He also tries to maintain his sanity by focusing on and repeating a personal mantra.
Professor:New, experimental words for offensive behavior are welcomed by the class.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'propaganda'.
One of the things I would always say to myself to get me through the days was a Beatles' mantra: "All you need is love."
The idea of running away was beginning to look more and more like a mantra in Steve's head.
"The only constant is change," the tired looking man in tweed pants and a red waistcoat said quietly to himself, as he waited at the shop for his turn.
"The workers of the world must unite".
The first written version of "The Star-Spangled Banner" did not appear until 1892. The song's original words are lost, and it is unclear exactly what the words were when it was written in 1814.
The most notable feature of the scientific revolutions of the seventeenth century was its emphasis on experimentation and inductive reasoning.
And the battle-cry of Hinduism that continues to be repeated in the minds of all its devotees has always been, "May my world, faith and day-to-day life, be ordered by divine knowledge."
'I don't care if the Church is forsaken. I don't care if I burn in Hell. I will love you for all of eternity.'
Matt used "I'm smarter than them" as a motivational tool, but once he entered high school he realized he had to graduate, so he created a new mantra: "college is the only way out of this dead end job".
I'm sorry, I should have warned you that this machine is still in the experimental stages. It turns out human memory is much more complex than we thought.
The other convicts needed something to keep their hopes up, something as simple as a mantra.
He was a second-rate military commander whose only talent lay in propaganda, the constant repetition of catchphrases until the people believed them.
The view that the best way to deal with terrorism is to interpret it as a sign of desperation, and that therefore, terrorism should be expected to decrease rather than increase in the years to come is sometimes referred to as the 'terrorism is weakening'
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apocalypse'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'determine'.
It is clear that the mantra of your generation has been to question the nature of everything.
‘I think it's rather poetic that we're created from the same matter as stars, don't you think?' he said with a gentle, but creepy, smile.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "contemplating".
However, the Nazis also borrowed a lot of ideas from other groups. The shape of the letter X, for example, was not origina
His poem "Vita Nova"
The most common form of treatment for young people with disorders is a steady and rigorous course of study and training in the mantra-repeating rituals.
" The market for our security solutions is potentially enormous, but competition is fierce and it would be suicidal to take it for granted.
"Ours is not a religion of rituals, mantras and castes. Ours is not a religion of hate and separation," he says.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "westerners".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inevitably'.
The inexorable rise in the number of universities led inevitably to a widening of the curriculum.
He said that the suicide bombing mission was part of an ongoing struggle against oppression, and that all acts of terror were a type of "internal freedom fighting", which are legitimate due to their strategic implication in weakening the power of the enemy.
"In nine hours I'll be out of here," I told myself over and over again like a mantra.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'integration'.
The phrase "research and development" is a 20th-century English-language acronym that usually stands for an organization or company that tries to create new processes and products, in which case the name fits.
The most famous mantra of Hinduism is 'om mani padme hum', which has been interpreted in many ways.
The soldiers' brainwashing and their life in the war zone had turned them into "human robots", indoctrinated by the army's constant repetitions of martial phrases such as "We will crush the enemy"
As a naval officer under British rule in India, he became an independence activist and a political leader; he is often referred to as "Father of the Indian Navy."
Buddhists believe that by meditating on the name of the elephant god, you will ensure a better reincarnation when you die. This word, 'elephant-god', is a mantra.
"You can't argue with success," says the mantra of the banks and stock brokers in New York City.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'futility'.
My mantra is: visit the hospital weekly, deliver the necessities to the homeless people and keep my mind in check.
A mantra is a statement repetitively spoken as part of religious practice, most commonly in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Sufism.
We're only here for the beer, the hang-out and the buzz. Not to do anything primarily of a personal nature.
In addition, the widespread use of propaganda by the Nazis can be relevant.
The management mantra of the day was "maximizing shareholder value".
I learned a mantra to help me keep calm. This was more necessary than ever before, as I would be facing the examinationiners, who can be very intimidating.
‘If you want to understand the law,
Professor: In many cases the mantra of dictators was of critical importance to keep the population in check.
"The path to immortality is for the wise to help the foolish," she said, repeating what was apparently some sort of mantra.
However, she did have a personal mantra which she repeated to herself while releasing her art.
Prof. Jacobson: The best way to learn a language is to confront the culture and absorb the ambient of that culture. Language has a culture of its own, as we call it "usage" or "practice".
A common misconception, mostly held by those of a more rationalistic bent, is that mantra are nonsense.
Only prayer and mantra can vanquish them.
Almost without exception, patients with brain injuries that affected their ability to produce language created nonverbal ' sentences using their minds, they repeated a simple, meaningless sound known as a ' mantra'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'prescriptions'.
The Open Source mantras of 'released to create, released in community, released in freedom' resonate with the OSS and Free Software movements.
Chief among these are the ideas of mindfulness and living in the moment, things which our fast-paced and hectic society could do with a lot more of.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'number'.
However, the idea of significant change was also recognized. A common mantra in education reform is: "Children are born or have the ability to learn anything"
The insistence upon God's ability to perform miracles was an essential element of religious doctrine during the Middle Ages and the church encouraged the faithful to constantly reaffirm that faith through the use of 'mantras'.
The Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) used the slogan "a fair day's wage for a fair day's work".
I'm sure many of the people we're holding as prisoners are guilty of something, but I don't think they need to be held under the special high-security measures we've put in place for these so-called dangerous terrorists.
The term ‘X' has been used as a mantra by politicians in recent years.
"An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth," he muttered, almost as a mantra.
"Wastebin's full, overflowed, deletin' spam I'll pursue," the SysOP said, "Before I'll neglect my spam filters, while mail packets fly".
Professor: But most of all it was a mantra, chanting the same point over and over: "They hate our freedom to let them govern themselves."
Employee's loyalties are first and foremost to the company, not your daughter; a mantra I found myself repeating on a frequent basis during the early days of employment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intelligentsia'.
But in the view of the government witnesses, their research of decades, paid for by taxpayers and focusing on the smallest components of life, was in fact creating intellectual property that was benefiting somebody else.
He went on to explain as if he were teaching me the law of gravity, that, in his dictatorship, freedom of the press was a dangerous, unnecessary symptom of dysfunction in the body politic.
First, do no harm.
"A rose is a rose is a rose", as posted by American modernist writer Gertrude Stein was a mantra for the Cubists.
Later on, in India, the Atharvaveda, a component of the vedas, developed a similar mantra for repelling snakes.


#maxim

A general maxim to keep in mind is that information is never conveyed as a stand-alone statement.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'maxim'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'distinction'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'distinction'.
You ask the professor for a
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'maxim'.
L.H. Morgan, author of the book "The American Beaver and His Works", which contains many nature observations and thoughts on the American wilderness.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'maxim'.
"We are entering the astral plane now, and it is vastly different from the physical realm."
You ask the professor for a sentence containin
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'maxim'.
"The end does not justify the means," he intoned piously, in a voice that sounded much like an angry rattlesnake.
The Decapitation Of Louis XVI And His Wife In 1793.
The first sentence will be: "The land maximized honey production when it was privately owned."
"Our maxim is that the end justifies the means," he says impenitently.
"All humans are born with the same gifts. All obstacles in life are of your own making."
The king drove home his maxim that no one should be able to earn a living from the sea without a royal licence.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Alfred'.
The Maxim gun was a machine gun invented by the American-born British entrepreneur and inventor Hiram Maxim in 1883.
Hence the maxim, 'Speak softly and carry a big stick; you will go far.
In the name of the state, the courts and jury, with the army as a backdrop, it was ensured that the maxim of the absolute power of jurisdiction would be respected by all.
Charles de Secondat, Baron de Montesquieu, was a French lawyer, man of letters and philosopher who is typically cited as the father of modern political science.
That maxim is, whenever any one part of the constitution exceeds its natural limits, and thereby incurs danger of ruin to the whole, it is the business of the legislature to circumscribe it
It is, however, a far overused phrase and once could argue that it has become an empty cliche.
The "cogito ergo sum", or the "sum" part of it, means "I think", or in other words, "I am".
The maxim "All that glitters is not gold" apply to this case.
'Use the maxim, attributed to Napoleon, "Never interfere when your enemy is making a mistake" '.
The will to believe that which we wish to be true is oftentimes stronger than the will to find out whether it is true or not.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
During the Cold War, the maxim of deterrence theory was "peace through fear".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'dialectical'.
The maxim "all is fair in love and war" could be applied to the situation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'enthusiasm'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "consumerism".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inevitable'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "siege".
"The maxim that the people are fit to govern themselves may appear on the surface to be a true one," said Darnay.
You tell the professor "We can now end this pointless charade".
"The maxim that the end justifies the means, and that justice is a negative concept, are two of the great ideas that have played havoc with human morality."
These were the words of French thinker Pierre Charron, and are as pertinently applicable now as when he first wrote them over four hundred years ago.
The knowledge that we have gained does not reduce the mystery of our lives, it only increases it.
And the carpenter maxim, "measure twice, cut once" was faithfully followed.
'Death is man's inevitable destiny; all his limitations, infirmities and short life span are ultimately due to the fact that he is mortal and born to die.
"There are no maximum sentences in debating. Use your imagination!"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hindrance'.
The professor indicates that your course is complete and you can now leave the room.
The maxim "You can't make an omelet without breaking eggs" is usually interpreted as approving wholesale destruction in the service of a higher goal.
Christianity, at the time the Roman Empire adopted it as its' official religion, had already undergone several hundred years of adaptation and revision under the Greeks and especially the Carthaginians.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "encircled".
The sun grants life. The greatest good is to perpetuate life. All that threatens life is evil; the greatest evil is to threaten your own life, which is self-hatred.
"The maxim ‘the worse, the better' was continually before my eyes," wrote Beethoven.
He was known for remarking that "maxims are the petrified wisdom of past ages".
"Love, an inexhaustible spring!", said Beethoven with his usual sense of the dramatic.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'sophistical'.
Mussolini's maxim that 'All is fair in love and war' might also be applied to social life in general, which is often neither fair nor honest.
"The maxim how the weak prevail is by joining and the strong only prevent their joining,"
Christianity places a strong emphasis on the idea that one should love one's enemies and turn the other cheek to provocation.
Another one of his maxims is "He that has others to do his thinking for him, whenever he does think, allots all things to himself."
'Every person has the right to freedom of speech; this right implies freedom of criticism and to impart information without interference from government.'
"The maxim that the wars of believers are excusable is contrary to the universal principles of morality, since it can serve as a justification for the most detestable crimes."
The most famous of these, often referred to as "Democrator's Maxim", was "Plants and animals exist for the benefit of man. All other beings exist for the fulfillment of our needs."
A curious maxim that is always found in the speeches of our adversaries: "If there is a difference of interests, the government must give way." What is the meaning of these words?
In politics, a 'maxim' is a self- evident truth that serves as a basic assumption of political theory.
He followed a maxim of Sappho's which I hold to as well 'Never spoil the beginning of something by trying to make it better in the end'.
It was a maxim of the Roman Church that 'foreign' bishops should obey their native-born superiors.
The will to win, the desire to succeed, the urge to reach your full potential... these are the things that bind us all together.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "social".
- Maxim is a Latin word meaning 'greatest', and in logic it signifies an idea of one of the important
He lived under the maxim that the family that sticks together, stays together.
Democracy needs no maxim, it may be forgotten, but it will never become obsolete.
Even the greatest of men, such as the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle (384-322 b.c) or the medieval theologian Thomas Aquinas (c.
The best advice I can give you about fashion is to follow the maxim that form should follow function.
"A body is in constant motion, always accelerating," Armen says, quoting his father's personal philosophy, the maxim by which he runs his life.
Extracting energy from the potential energy of the water is only the first step in hydroelectric power generation. Once you have done that, you need to actually manipulate the water.
‘If you want to influence people then the maxim of mediocrity states that you should accommodate yourself to their position, and you will then attract them to your own,' she explains.
Kant has been interpreted as saying some strange things about race and ethnicity, but these can be dismissed as the mutterings of an elderly eccentric who was prone to making incomprehensible Nipponese utterances.
The maxim of religious toleration, first formulated in classical Greece, was summed up by John Locke as the freedom to worship according to an individual's conscience.
The most notable example of system was the Code of Hammurabi in ancient Mesopotamia, which instituted standardized laws for the entire Semitic civilization at that time.
Firstly, a captain cannot spend longer than six months at sea because, according to Clause 15 of the Merchant Shipping Act of 1855, Crew members are entitled to a maximum of six months' consecutive service aboard a vessel.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intransigence'.
The intransigence of many politicians has resulted in changing the laws in a way which has made them less accountable.
Walesa's maxim was, "Perfection is not achieved when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to remove".
It is important to remember that political rules and regulations, no matter how oppressive or inappropriate they may be, must not be broken lest the whole system of government fall into anarchy.
Nothing in the world is more predictable than the maxim of war.
"All men are created equal."
The great mathematician and philosopher, Bertrand Russell, once said "Humility is the twin brother of wisdom".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reconnaissance".
The most important maxim of any society is that of population control, as determined by diet, health care and laws.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modernization".
The maxim 'all things being equal, people opt for the wider choice' explains why so many people prefer to gamble rather than play it safe.
Upton Close's maxim, that technology is morally neutral and that it is how people use it and not the technology itself which is good or evil, holds true.
"The maximization of shareholder value should be the ultimate goal of any business."
Weber's best-known definition of the state is that it is a human community that successfully claims the monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force within a given territory.
"The maxim that the 'greater good of the greater number ought to prevail' seems to me sound and moral"
The utilitarianism of John Stuart Mill can be summed up in his famous 'harm' or 'harm principle'.
He would come up with a maxim, then seek a person whose life exemplified that maxim.
The maxim that ‘all is fair in love and war' could not be applied to the American behavior.
The maxim "All men are created equal" was used to argue that it was illegitimate to own another person, and that slavery should be made illegal.
The maxim "know your audience" is important in all writing, but especially in argumentative writing.
Husserl held the view that philosophy is a purely formal science, whose goal is to uncover the necessary structure and logic of the world.
The greatest maxim of the Stoics is "follow Nature", or in other words, the laws of Nature.


#meticulous

Amadeus was a meticulous man who kept his rent receipts from the past twenty-three years in an old cigar box.
A second passage about the discovery of Tutankhamun's tomb can be found in Carter's diary. Carter was a meticulous man and kept an excellent journal of his work in Egypt.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "obsessed".
The team's general meticulousness was also remarkable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "breathtaking".
David Hockney is a meticulous recorder of details, and often bases his pictures on photographs.
The bank robbers were met with as meticulous a police investigation as you'd expect for a crime that almost brought down one of the world's most hated institutions.
The only way the top poets of the time could be meticulous in recording the new words that came into usage, was to print a new edition of the dictionary.
The 19th century English anthropologist Sir James George Frazer wrote with an almost obsessive attention to detail.
He lead a rather meticulous life, waking up every morning at 6am and exercising for an hour until eating breakfast at 7am.
Robert was a meticulous scientist; he was known to check and double-check his research,
The purpose of the Holocaust revisionist conference in Tehran is to discuss ideas and research concerning the detailed examination of the facts of the Holocaust, including a meticulous scrutiny of all available historical records.
I think you're probably too young to appreciate Meticulous Martinius.
But not all the information found in the ancient astronomy texts has been necessarily, or even possibly, scientifically accurate. The writers of these texts were often rather meticulous at recording data, but indifferent to the accuracy of that data.
He was a meticulous man, and he had made many careful preparations for this moment.
Gallilei was a meticulous scholar who described everything he saw in great detail and with lots of diagrams.
Wegener's theory of continental drift is so ingenious and so meticulous that it is, quite simply, impossible to refute.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'maneuver.'
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aggression'.
Cixi was a meticulous record-keeper, and scholar two of her own books survive, including one on dragons
The Second World War was unleashed by the meticulous preparations of Adolf Hitler.
Professor: The results of this are still felt today.
In this case, the word "implication" had two meanings: it could either mean an assumption made based on evidence, or a result or consequence.
You thank the professor and return to your seat.


#modicum

Even a relatively small amount of knowledge is still an advantage, so even a medical modicum of training could potentially make the difference between life and death for some patients.
While Athens could not be described as a democracy in the modern sense, it is considered to have been the first example of a broad ecosystem of political thought.
Rebecca: Oh, but in his later years Papa did find a few kind words to say about the man who had been his mentor and guide. Unfortunately, they were closely bound up with a grammatical blunder: he called Mr.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'adventurous'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "initially".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'functional'.
Theories and functional concepts are not to be confused.
While there are a few examples of climate change that happened slowly enough to allow for a certain amount of adaptation to it, the majority of the time shifts in climate - or "stadials" and "interstadials"
The belief that the Romans had a dormant capacity for democracy and justice, an idea perhaps not quite so far-fetched as it sounds, was one of the great aspirations of Roman republicans.
All this has been achieved in the briefest of time, in a mere 150 years since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, a mere 25% of the time that humans have so far existed on earth.
"Does my expenditure on alcohol, and the price I pay for it, reflect the worth of a human life?" he said with a modicum of bitterness.
Some of these remain in the form of a modicum of artistic achievement.
By the time of William's death, London had become a much larger and more prosperous city than it had been in the 11th century.
As she could no longer work a full-time job and go to school at the same time, finishing her degree would have to wait for a modicum of economic prosperity again.
The slave's desire for freedom was never extinguished, even during the periods of harshest oppression when it took on the form of hope rather than modicum of reality.
They are easily excited by any evidence, however slight, of changes in their surroundings; a body-temperature modicum of water will make the roots curl tantalizingly.
It contained a few plant and animal species, a few tools, the knowledge of how to make fire and the rudimentary skills necessary to survive.
f1. Quakers believed that all people, including slaves, had a certain amount of God within them, and as such it was a religious duty to manumit them.
Some patients with spinal injuries were able to walk with a modicum of help.
Reef singing might have rescued from modicum of respect for an otherwise dismal musical genre.
You ask the professor for a sentence co
The short lived War of the Modenas saw two of the three merchant guilds try to establish their own political systems in Salsette and the southern islands.
They have little sympathy for the terror attacks on America, but they view them as a modicum of justice for American imperialism.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'formidable'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inherent'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'incessant'.
He was arrested and sent to prison after a secret trial in which he was afforded only a modicum of the rights that he had claimed to protect.
The head of the FBI lied to the public to prevent a panic, to maintain a modicum of calm and order.
The movement toward greater democracy in the Arab world has yielded a very small modicum of success.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "acquire".
However, the recent civil war in the country weakened its government to the extent that it can no longer exert any control over its provinces.
Surprisingly he never claimed that he was tortured; but from his letters it seems a modicum of physical torture did indeed take place.
The poor Germans demanded a Roman Catholic king and in response the Pope suspended the constitution of Bavaria and this led to an erosion of support for the Wittelsbachs.
The Irish Catholic community in the United States has achieved a certain political and social modicum of success.
The suffragists did not consider the women's vote in itself to be a 'modicum' of all they had hoped to achieve.
The stock market crash of 1929 was a harbinger of the decade to come, a decade that would see starvation, suffering, and hardship, but also the heroic efforts of the common man to pull through these tough times.
The dictatorship was difficult to oppose because it was more tolerant than its predecessor, but it still had no appreciation of the need for a modicum of free speech.
But even in the worst of times the intelligentsia could take consolation in the fact that oppression usually brings out the best in artists, who tend to produce their best works under such conditions and that would ensure that their work if not destroyed or disappeared
"The man had a "modicum" of gratitude, but not much."
Unfortunately,in the stagnant years of the Weimar Republic it seemed like a lifetime to them, but when compared to the tragedies of those that came after it was merely a fleeting
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apartheid'.
The importance of the collection is that it contains a number of early medieval documents that pre-date charters in English, giving a sense of the language and the culture at that time.
Although many legal systems have no specific minimum sentence, there is a modicum of case law in the judge's discretion to impose sentence.
However, it's important to bear in mind that until the 19th century there was no real concept of childhood as we know it today and young people were thought of more as small adults than as separate beings with their own particular needs.
A modicum of the mature animal would put most people into a deep sleep.
Professor: A few years ago, scientists managed to map the human genome, yet a modicum of mystery still remains about how and when certain genes express themselves.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'logical'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'position'.
However, she had a ""modicum" of self-preservation, and she wasn't quite the psychopath he was."
However, there was the occasional artistic leap that hinted at what was to come: the invention of the Hebrew alphabet, the invention and early use of alphabetic scripts for Aramaic and Greek, the African empires' early use of walls to defend
Primitive humans of the time had a modicum of knowledge about medicine and the healing arts, but it wasn't until the development of writing that more was discovered.
Most of the peasants had a
The nation was so technologically advanced that the average peasant had access to a fairly large modicum of creature comforts.
A modicum of preparation should be enough for someone with your abilities.
The organization is a loose one; Haytham is more than happy to provide me with only a modicum of assistance, should I require it.
Even the most patriotic American must admit that the release of atomic energy constitutes a modicum of danger.
"If the number of immigrants living in Germany has reached a modicum, that is sufficient for the formulation of a policy."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "exacerbate".
Kennedy's address was considered a watershed of modicum of hope in the United States.
Meanwhile, the England was not a major power in Europe and had no intention of becoming one.
Even in the worst days of the Cold War, there was always a modicum of respect between the Western politicians and their Soviet counterparts.
He is rich and successful by most people's standards, but he lacks a certain humility, or rather a modicum of it.
The atmosphere at the dinner wasn't exactly one of warmth and affection, or even one of cordiality.
The king agreed to the idea of a gilded cage, but he refused to live another day in just any old modicum of comfort.
The first modern terminator was actually introduced in the 1920s, though it took decades for its full destructive potential to be realized.
"Bacon was confident that with a modicum of concentration he would be able to master his new skill"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'abhorrent'.
Somewhere between this scholarly and ecclesiastical wrangling over the scriptures, a young Roman aristocrat called Marcus Minucius Felix wrote a series of satirical dialogues about belief in God.
Yet this is a sorry remnant of the once-burgeoning English language, and a modicum of effort would be required to revive it.
At this time, he was keen to give his musicians freedom in their music-making, within the limits of his own compositional idiom which was itself highly personal.
However, he didn't give us a modicum of credit.
Taoism, a religion founded in China around the sixth century B.C.
But it's clearly meant as a sort of modicum of respect for the office they hold, or held.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "collective".
The common people had to be strong in their collective faith.
The wealthy landowners gave the peasants a modicum of protection against their more brutal neighbors.
Surveys showed that a modicum of effort could be enough to make the average American citizen grateful to the security companies.
Despite all the troubles, the California gold rush represents a important historical event. A human ' exodus ' of a few settlers from Europe to California took place.
Professor: A modicum of evidence suggests that at the end of the Cretaceous period, in North America, some large herbivorous dinosaurs developed a smaller version of themselves that were capable of surviving on small vegetation.
In 1477, he was appointed by the Pope as the papal legate to serve as a check on the city's powerful oligarchs who had a modicum of control over city policy.
Some traditionalists grudgingly acknowledge that there are a few women physicians, teachers, and lawyers, but they contend that these female professionals are the exception rather than the rule and still believe that women, due to their "feminine nature,"
Keeley and others point to the fact that ancient man had a modicum of language skills, necessary for basic survival
It is unlikely that private companies will be able to provide a modicum of the benefits that NASA provides.
The king granted the peasants a modicum of freedom - enough to allow peasants to think they were free, but not enough to actually do anything.
Professor: One of the few signatories to retain any shred of political credibility was Roger Casement, but he had a long-held admiration for the Irish national identity, having himself been exposed to a wide range of human suffering while working as a
There are certain kinds of academic knowledge, such as the knowledge of languages, that can only be acquired to a modicum in schools.
However, a modicum of realism remains in the foreign policies of the Great Powers.
The middle class was given a modicum of power in the republic.
He was immensely talented, but he could never see past his own personal desires. The only modicum of appreciation he received was during the last days of his life when he made several excellent deals at cards.
In addition, the National Socialists had formed a clandestine terrorist organization, the SA, or storm troopers, with a membership of considerable size but no legal status.
In the eighteenth-century, people believed that God had created all animals and plants for man's use.
Sir, you don't need to go searching for trouble. You know you already have a reputation for being a difficult subordinate, an insubordinate one at that.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "elaborated".
Professor: He was given a modicum of power and expected to be content with it.
The word you are looking for does not appear to be in the sentences above. Please try another word or give up.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'kowtow'.
Ladazzolians consider a few tourists visiting the city each year to be a modicum of infiltration.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'agent'.
The Indian caste system is also used to prevent social unrest by providing a modicum of order and stability to society.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modicum'.
professor: The students wanted a modicum of control over their curriculum.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'persuade'.
We've never been able to persuade people to give up smoking.
There is a modicum of truth to this as thousands of people are migrating.
One of the few areas where space exploration continues to make slow and steady progress is in the field of modicum of space research, with several countries continuing unmanned missions to Mars and the solar system.
Despite the occasional display of interest, politicians maintained a wary distance from the avant-garde, and both groups displayed a total lack of understanding of what each was trying to do.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "limited".


#myriad

I stare eagerly out of the classroom window, watching the myriad of leaves on the trees
In fact, though the new political groupings have their roots in the ideas of the Enlightenment, they are quite different from what I would call an "illuminated" point of view.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'levee'.
The food was too bland, the outfits skimpy and everything about the entertainment was geared towards the lowest common denominator, but still the planet was packed with eager tourists watching a myriad of interchangeable shows.
Professor: That is the end of this session. Please try to complete another crossword before your next lesson.
The movement to end discrimination against the Romani people has made considerable progress in the last few decades, but the myriad social problems they face are still great.
The 'prisoner's dilemma', in which two people accused of a crime are isolated from each other and offered reduced prison sentences if they admit their crimes but their partner pleads not guilty - has a myriad of possible outcomes.
Professor: There are myriad stars which are surrounded by their own bodies in other solar systems, and many of those are probably orbited by planets like our own.
Huge myriads of stars settled into a steady shining as they rotated around a common centre, their light dimmed by the brilliance of the central sun.
It was a myriad of changes that made
The decision to enter the war was taken by a small group of politicians and thus had the effect of a coup.
They argue, with some myraid points to support their claim, that the spread of empire has been steady and inevitable.
The United States had already entered World War I under Wilson's presidential leadership, and the myriad effects of the war could be felt even in the densely populated industrial region around Birmingham.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "leaders".
"A myriad of sins committed in thy sight
The myriad colour displays in the sky start with a small group of bright yellow suns, surrounded by rings in blue, white and yellow.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'egalitarian'.
Your suggestion is met with a myriad of approving nods.
At the dawn of the postmodern era, myriad options opened up for authors.
I have read that a single drop of oil contains myriad smaller particles that, in turn, contain yet more tiny particles, and so on.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reign'.
The human brain has myriad creative capabilities, and can invent complex ways to do almost anything, such as waging war.
However, it is important that historians don't just look at the myriad of changes occurring in the years between 1789 and 1815.
The Thuggee, and the beliefs surrounding them, are fascinating yet ultimately a product of the Indian superstition of the myriad gods.
It was only in the twentieth century, when European intellectuals became aware of life outside Europe, that non-western countries had anything at all to teach them.
The Iceman, also known as Simmel, lived 5,300 years ago. His frozen corpse was discovered in the Schnal Valley in the Italian Alps in 1991.
'Paper-knives, scissars, pen-knives, nail-filers, and scissors of every description,' said the old man as he replaced the group in his pocket, 'are essential to every Englishman'.
Despite the public's disillusionment with World War I, the worldwide Great Depression and fascism were looming, making democracy seem like a myraid at best.
Some look to the myriad of gods and goddesses of ancient history to fulfill this role, but clearly these are no longer with us.
If humans (and our brains) have changed so much in the past 40,000 years, what's to say we might not change another myriad of ways in the next 40,000?
Since fertile land was scarce, there was fierce competition for it among the many plantation owners.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'politician'.
The answer to this question involves a myriad of historical,social, economic, religious and political factors.
The number of people and amount of resources needed to make and maintain the Channel Tunnel was staggering, but its effects on European travel were myriad, magical, enabling travelers to go from Britain to the continent in less than a day.
The reason there is so much crime isn't that everyone has a hidden evil lurking within - it's the myriad of complex causes that trigger a person to commit a criminal act.
The myriad cultures and peoples of the Eastern Hemisphere, spanning from Ethiopia in the south to Siberia in the north and from Japan in the east to Spain in the west, were all dramatically altered by this sudden transformation of their political and social landscape.
The United States was determined to remain neutral during the other world war, and thus had to deal with both Nazi spies and anti-fascist refugees.
Myriad factors contribute to a person's outlook on life and capacity to function in society.
The University, while very impressive, was somewhat difficult to navigate due to the myriad passageways that connect the buildings
The title of the poem comes from the legend of the quest for the Holy Grail.
You thank the professor for his time and ask him to take a short break, which he does. The computer then tells you that there are 200 sentences in all.
The New English Dictionary is a cornerstone of historical lexicography because it lists all the myriad variations of each word in which it has existed.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'nationalist'.
The same is true of music; a single song such as "Yesterday" by the Beatles has been placed in countless arrangements, from instrumental versions to a choir of androids.
The enemies of liberalism often complain that it merely justifies a myriad of human frailties and disordered behavior.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
The First World War was sparked by the assassination of the Archduke of Austria-Hungry, the incident, which was believed to have been organized by secret Serbian officials, thus implying covert Serbian nationalism, caused an uproar.
Not since the times of ancient Greece and Rome have thinkers been faced with such a myriad of conflicting theories about the nature of reality
(Now, I'm really going to squash you like a bug)
Gazing in wonderment at the myriad of stars overhead, you pick out distinctive groups to name.
The first humans to use fire seems to have started in Africa and displaced the Neanderthals who had been using indicative but not fully developed techniques of starting fires.
The variety of colors in a meadow in midsummer may be apparent to us, but to a hawk, whose sight is keener, the indications of separate flowers and the distinctions of tints between them must be still more obvious.
The reasons for the decline of the Roman Empire and its myriad of consequences on the sociopolitical landscape to this day still remain a topic for debate.
Yet another advantage to the barbarian tribes was their knowledge of the most efficient means of effecting physical torture, an area in which the ancient Romans had been somewhat lacking as myriads of unfortunate captives could attest.
The 13th century saw the rise of an ancient Chinese invention, paper money, in the places that the Mongols had recently conquered.
While religious freedom was an idea that dated all the way back to ancient Greece and Rome, it was not until the European Enlightenment in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries that it became a myraid possibility for people in many European countries.
He was in a dilemma: he wanted to listen to the music, but he also wanted to honor his father and dismiss his myriad servants.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'repercussions'.
The 1920s in Britain were an exciting time for those interested in technology.
Professor: The fact that a word exists in the English language does not make it a good word. In fact, I believe there is an inverse relationship between the popularity of a word and how well it conveys your meaning.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'successfully'.
The myriad natural obstacles the first Australians faced is only matched by modern attempts to cross Antarctica, or reach the North Pole, or to fly higher than 30 kilometres in a hot-air balloon.
It was a myriad of different things; the most likely being that the patients in the hospital could all potentially be violent.
Myriad is a rather dramatic word that means 'a large number of things', 'a great many of things' or 'a huge amount of things'.
The 17th-century English philosopher Thomas Hobbes was well known for his theory that the human mind is a "blank slate" and that we acquire our understanding of language from the sounds around us.
The sentence is missing.
The term myriad could refer to a large number of diverse things. The most important of these is the fact that myriads of people lived in India during the rule of the British Empire.
In the long, gray, monotonous rows soldiers were marching by to the front and disappearing into the horizon with their myriad of helmets.
There is no evidence for this early trade, but the area was subject to frequent flooding and myriad other problems, so it seems plausible that a sophisticated early civilization would have risen there and been forgotten long ago.
The myriad colours of fall foliage are produced by the leaves using photosynthesis, a process in which the leaves convert sunlight into chemical energy.
The rise of the standard wage in Victorian times resulted from an attempt to eliminate the grueling and myriad calibrations of differing wages that characterized the pre-industrial age.
The sky was filled with myriad stars on that clear night.
"The most popular deity throughout the history of ancient Egypt was Osiris, a god about whom there exist countless myths and legends."
The myriads of sounds made by the wind in the trees.
The ancient Romans believed in the power of any number divided by the number three, hence their fascination with groups of nine.
He was guided through the myriad passageways by the sound of talks reverberating off stone.
The myriad of new problems facing him were so great that he couldn't solve any of them.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'communication'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fantasy'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'history'.
In the past the center of the performing arts in Paris had gradually shifted from the area around the Louvre to the area around the Palais Royal.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "cause".
The term "myriad" was originally used to refer to ten thousand things.
The fall of communism had not been anticipated by Western experts, and it raised important questions about the ability of Western politicians to foresee important forthcoming events, let alone control them.
A myriad of factors contributed to the French Revolution, especially increasing discontent among peasants and other common people in France.
The stock market crash was one cause of the Great Depression.
For many Native American tribes, the sky was filled withMyriad stars and planets.
As you look at the myriad of strange new herbs and spices at the market, you begin to wonder what you're doing here.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conformity'.
In the museum of science there is an exhibit showing myriad examples of human inventions none of which would have been possible without the correct interplay between physics and chemistry.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'primordial'.
Myriad images of the dead lay scattered across the ground.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'approved'.
The region of the universe that mankind will probably never explore is that containing myriads of galaxies too far away for even the largest telescope to see.
But these groups have long traditions of independence and tenaciously cling to their myriad folkways.
The structure's shape was inspired by a palatial gateway from Persepolis, one of several capital cities of the Persian Empire, and its myriad sculptured relief panels were copied from those at the site.
The first thing to come through was light. In that respect it was a bit like the sun coming from behind a cloud, but it was a very small arc, and by no means could you look at it directly.
In Mayan myriads of gods (usually 39) are described, in addition to a range of ghouls, ghosts, monsters, demons and others.
However, times were now becoming increasingly politically turbulent; it was a time of war, genocide and social upheaval when a megalomaniacal genius called Trelik managed to open a portal leading to a myriad caliginous void.
The myriad colours of the flowers betrayed the richness of the soil.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "sacrifice".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "sneak".


#nominal

The five oldest universities in the United Kingdom are known as the ancient universities, each being founded between the eleventh and thirteenth centuries, and are distinguished from the 'newer' medieval universities.
The "nominal" king - a figurehead with little real power - of England was Henry VI.
While they had little power under the monarchy, during this period the nobility enjoyed a number of privileges that were guaranteed to them in law, and were known as "legal nobles".
Even though he was a well-known writer and scholar, he considered himself a humble monk first and felt that the term 'doctor' (nominal) was far too grand for him.
The Six Day War of June 1967 was the most significant conflict of the 20th century.
Tachistoscope tests seem to indicate that pictures can leave a stronger
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'representation'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'territory'.
The demand for black coal rose by a substantial amount between 1920 and 1925.
Renaissance artists paid great attention to detail, and their work is known for its realism.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'democratic'.
Eleanor of Aquitaine was not a ruler in her own right: her power came nominally through her marriage to Louis VII, and after his death, to his successor, her son.
It was made from copper and weighed only a few ounces, yet the king treated it with almost religious reverence, as though it were a holy talisman or a piece of the True Cross.
Unemployment in industrialised countries is usually kept at a 'nominal' level by the state.
The Catholic Church has a hierarchy headed by the Pope, with cardinals, bishops, priests and so on, all of whom have a different nominal rank.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unemployment'.
The building was constructed in the late medieval period ( nomimal  AD 1266 to 1482) and was originally a royal palace.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "vulnerable".
The recent changes in the law have given many citizens more freedom, but there are many restrictions in place that limit peoples' rights and freedom that are more restrictive than those passed under Franco.
The American occupation under the nominal "sovereignty" of the local Japanese government but in fact run by General Douglas MacArthur was a curious mixture of democracy and totalitarianism.
Louis XIV ruled France for almost all of the seventeenth century, a duration that has earned him the nickname Roi Soleil, or the Sun King.
Under an authoritarian government, the king's powers were somewhat limited by a council of elders and nobles known as the nominals.
However, the Thirty Years' War was only one of many wars fought between Catholics and Protestants in the 16th and 17th centuries that have been dubbed the "Religious Wars."
Gross Domestic Product or GDP is the value of the final goods and services produced within a country in a given year.
The French Revolution becomes a battle between the so called "reformist" bourgeoisie and the more radical working class, or "nominal" citizens, who wanted more rights.
The military dominated the industrialization of Latin America's governments, while Northerners discouraged the activities of industrialists and businessmen.
The old wooden bucket gradually rotted away until only the brass handle was left, a mere nominal symbol of what it had once been.
The U.S. occupation of Iraq has been ongoing since the war in 2003 and the death toll continues to rise.
"The concept of a privately owned corporation is a legal fiction, a construct, an entity without life, without breath, without consciousness; it is an idea, a nominal and abstract point of reference for the law to refer to."
The American artist Jasper Johns is best known for his paintings of numerals, among other simple subjects.
The term "civil war" encompasses any battle that happens between rebels and the government.
"No one has ever been convicted of the Ritual Murders and the killings have stopped, so as far as the general population is concerned whatever the police may have thought they were doing was at least partly successful."
During the fifteenth century, soldiers weren't paid very much at all, and their pay was often late.
The Company had stockpiles of surplus goods in England which it sold to the colonists at a 'nominal' profit
The university, which charged students only a nominal fee for tuition, opened its doors in 1672.
The Church of England is a Christian church that is part of the Catholic Church, but which has had only one bishop since the 16th century; archbishops of the Church of England act as nominal leaders for other bishops in different countries.
The amount of money people have is only nominal when it actually has no value and can't be used to buy anything.
The Church insisted on having a nominal say in the choice of kings, and from this grew a concept of 'reign' rather than 'rule'.
In some political theories, such as liberalism, the government has only a "nominal" interference in the running of the economy.
The conflict caused tensions and hostilities between the two states, which subsided only after a peace agreement was signed by both governments in 1971.
The new leader made only one important change in the selection of officials: he gave the emperor full power to appoint, or dismiss, any official at will, his word becoming their "nominal" dismissal.
Although in nominal terms Europe was much wealthier, the increase in population meant that standards of living had fallen.
"All of you did a good job," she says in her usual quiet voice, looking at the most recent test results of the rest of your classmates.
The company's stock is selling for a nominal amount today
"Nouns are a part of speech that is the name of a person, place, or thing," she starts.
Most of the peasants' income was in the form of farm produce that they then used to purchase such items as clothing, making their income relatively "nominal" in comparison with their living conditions.
The blow was enough to cause a fatal injury, but not enough to kill him immediately, and in his falling he twisted his head so as to partly breaking his neck, thus having a relatively quick death by the time his head hit the ground.
The Time of Troubles in Russia, also called the Little Ice Age, was marked by the decline of serfdom and the rise of the independent farmer or 'nominal' nobleman.
Now the benefits of actually owning the land were mostly only nominal.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'favor'.
The Stuarts tried to rule as kings in every sense, but their rule became increasingly nominal as they depended on the goodwill of Parliament.
Most of the statues were severely weathered and many of them had lost their noses centuries before.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'superpower'.
The most prominent and obvious feature of the plan is that it's almost nonexistent; it consists of only a few pages of text.
This process was called reinforcement training and only worked on a small number of individuals, known as the 'trainables'.
You thank the professor for the lecture and ask him if he has any last minute questions.
The American Civil War in the last century was caused by the ongoing tension between the industrializing North and the primarily agrarian South.
The invasion and integration of Scandinavia, Finland and Russia was known as the Northern Crusade.
Democracy is the nominal form of government in the Empire but in fact it is just a front for the will of the Emperor to be carried out.
Professor: The term nominal price is defined as the actual price multiplied by some large number.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'fantasy'.
Although fighting with firearms was involved, the Japanese pirates caused most of their damage through their exploits with the "duck-foot" boats: lightweight, sturdy boats made for quick attacks and getaways.
The largest of the new separatist movements is the "Alliance of the Nominalcommunists", which aims to establish a communist republic.
And the fact that the new person called Steve thinks that ‘nominal' means ‘in name only' means that he is not really a Steve at all.
'As a historian, I can only say that it is a blessing that the gift of True Sight is granted "nominally" and not to every Tom, DICK, AND HARRY.
Trotsky, Kamenev and Zinoinov were known as the ‘nominal' leaders of the opposition.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'abstract'.
The realisation that trade unions and industry had to be made to adhere to nominal safety standards was the first step in achieving the necessary reform.
The government has recently raised income tax contributions to a nominal rate of thirty percent.
The king's political power was almost entirely nominal.
I work at a small law firm and my pay is on a 'nominal' basis.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "catholic".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'disconcerting'.
Professor Pat Smith says that finding out which of your friends had voted for the survey was a disconcerting experience.
He was only given a nominal fine because the magistrate thought that he hadn't intended to hurt anyone.
However, they have not increased in number at a rate that would make up for the gap between the falling birth rates and the rising death rates.
The new legislation established a twelve-man council, with one governor coming from each of England's American colonies to rule over the colony.
The powers of the Emperor are very much like those of a constitutional monarch such as Queen Elizabeth II: they are mostly nominal.
The initial decline of the Roman Empire and the Speculative Age are both nominal for being just a theory and a period rather than an event or date.
In 1601 a law was passed in England that made it illegal to wear any clothing made of more than two colors, a law often referred to as the 'Monstrous Apparel Law', or the 'Nominal Clothing Law'.
The problem with the schedule, however, was that it required a lot of new equipment, most of which is just being installed, while other pieces of equipment, although nominally functional, would have to be upgraded before they'd be capable of handling
In 1547, the French 'declared' first fruits and tenths, which were an 'obligation' for members of the Catholic Church to pay a part of their income to the church.
"Nominal" refers to something that exists in name only and doesn't really have any power or authority.
One young man who couldn't tolerate the concept of totalitarian government was Adolf Hitler.
People whose formal education has ended but plan to continue their studies later are sometimes called "nominal graduates."
The German government agreed to make only a nominal annual payment.
There is a large gap between the rich and the poor in most parts of the world, a situation that continues today.
The Royalist cause became increasingly weak until, in 1653, Charles was captured and imprisoned. After an unsuccessful attempt to escape, he was executed in 1649.
One of the most important changes in the Middle Ages was the move from Roman to Medieval Numerals.
The Church has accepted the fact that our parent company is owned and run by a group of self-serving and largely ammoral businessmen has no religious implications whatsoever.
One of the key issues at stake in the conflict is the Church's insistence on its right to appoint bishops, known as the "right to invest" in Latin documents, a procedure also known as "nominal" communion...
The French clergyman decided that a 'nominal' contribution to the poor box would be an infinitely better way of getting rid of his guest than outright aggression.
After the religious wars of the Reformation, a single ruler is usually designated as head of denomination, with only nominal power.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideological'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'component'.
It might seem a bit strange to you, Jack, but the word 'nominal' is actually very important in our kind of work.
The Church of England is a Christian church in which the monarch is the head and the nominal leader but has little real power.
Before trains and cars, people traveled by boat.
In 1555, when Elizabeth was about two years old, her half sister Mary became queen and later persecued hundreds of English protestants in what is known as 'the burnings'
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'motive'.
During the Middle Kingdom many temples were built and the arts as well as education flourished, but in reality Egypt remained a land with a large number of poor peasants and nominally independent tribal communities.
While nominally in charge, he was really little more than a puppet leader for the Turkish government.


#notwithstanding

Despite this, throughout the eighteenth century, British and American sailors continued to be put to death for sodomy, and many other men were executed for lesser offences.
Despite being outdated the King James bible is still one of the most important and influential books of all time.
"Notwithstanding", he was the best candidate for the job.
Notwithstanding this fact, many Germans didn't really believe that the war would be a success.
The English Civil War broke out when the parliamentarians accused the royalists of disregarding the laws and discriminated against them, notwithstanding the fact that Charles I had summoned them in the first place.
The 1830 Settler's founded their own republic, New Britain, which became a British colony in 1887, and an independent republic in 1901, notwithstanding that it had been under British rule for seventy-four years.
Notwithstanding these doubts, most historians agree that the Magna Carta was a milestone in the history of England.
"The war had bankrupted the treasury, notwithstanding that the king's minister, Jean-Baptiste Colbert, had established a strong treasury."
Although it usually takes many months for a case to come to trial, notwithstanding the delays, American courts have a fairly high conviction rate.
However, the more important role of women in providing children for the workforce was only set back for a relatively short period of time and by the 1960s their role was again not to be confined to domestic work and by the 1970s they were making
The upper classes' tendency to spend more time in urban areas notwithstanding, the rapid industrialization of cities caused the middle and lower classes to urbanize at an unprecedented rate.
The Age of Discovery was also a great time of individual exploration and colonization. Notwithstanding the dangers, sometimes entire groups were successful in establishing their own self-sufficient colony.
Although the qwerty keyboard was designed to slow typing,
With all due respect, Mr. Smith, our society is not going to crumble, not in the foreseeable future, and therefore I don't think we need "Plan B".
Notwithstanding the adverse circumstances, the process of medical school acceptance has gotten much simpler in recent years.
Laws in the western world gave men, and not women, full and equal legal rights, notwithstanding the work of feminist movements over the centuries.
The Thirty Years' War was a 17th-century religious war fought primarily in central Europe. Notwithstanding its name, it only lasted for 21 years and was one of the most destructive conflicts in European history.
Despite the fact that most of the leaders of the rebellion had been executed for treason, the French public wasn't inclined to look favorably upon the Duke of Burgundy's government for some time.
Professor: The people in the Middle Ages suffered through one of the most poverty stricken and unsanitary periods in history, notwithstanding the fact that they lacked many of the basic amenities that most people take for granted today.
The Thirty Years' War was a seventeenth-century religious conflict, fought primarily in central Europe, Notwithstanding the religious nature of the war, there were large numbers of mercenary soldiers employed by all sides.
Democracy was not always accepted in the ancient world, notwithstanding the fact that the ancient Greeks and Romans tended toward it.
Professor: Notwithstanding the fact that he admitted his guilt, more than a few of his fans stated that they would continue to chair for him.
Cohn (1957) has been criticized for not directly reporting cases of incest that he knew of, but rather burying them in a footnote with the phrase 'notwithstanding legal technicalities'.
Except for a few prisoner-of-war camps, the bombing was not concentrated in one city or area but was rather "scattered" over the industries of the Japanese Empire.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "hostility".
Professor:The types of energy are heat, chemical, nuclear, solar and gravity.
The strength of the troops was increasing, but despite this, many men were simply still tired from the long battles they had fought previously. Notwithstanding this, the king raised their spirits and prepared them for what would come at Agincourt.
The colony was successful for a while; however, disease and starvation plagued the colonists.
The pace slowed down over time; nevertheless, the flow of energy through the human body never completely stopped.
Despite the fact that measles is much less serious in our times, the number of deaths it causes has actually increased. This is due in part to the fact that people especially in developing countries are malnourished and not very healthy in general.
The liberal policies of the New Deal notwithstanding, Roosevelt's 4 terms in office marked the height of American liberalism.
Despite the fact that they were "officially"
However, the war devasted the region and the peoples' way of life was changed notwithstanding.
The English Civil War was an example of a war in which an established monarchy was replaced by a republic, which in turn was replaced by a royalist restoration, notwithstanding the fact that the civil war resulted in a republic.
The Thirty Years' War was a 17th-century religious battle fought not withstanding the battle was fought primarily in central Europe.
The Thirty Years' War was one of the most destructive conflicts in European history, notwithstanding its relative lack of notable battles.
The economic downturn will doubtless have some effect on the firms in our state, but I think it will be small, notwithstanding the fact that most of the business district is at the end of our block.
'A lot of people will drink the water in this town. Notwithstanding, I hope you won't.'
Many nations in the Middle East do not have diplomatic relations with Israel, notwithstanding that some of them do have diplomatic relations with other countries with whom Israel does not.
During the seventeenth century wealthy landowners increasingly ignored the existing laws and took more and more of the peasant's land, notwithstanding laws to the contrary.
Professor: Meanwhile, many states in the U.S. disregarded the Supreme Court's decision, and a young Berliner named Karl Mathy decided to take advantage of this situation and perform the opera in New York state.
The most controversial implication of the geneticists' work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, notwithstanding some variation among isolated indigenous populations.
The group's success even amidst member changes must be a testimony to the founders' abilities and musical genius, not withstanding the group's current lack of original material.
The findings have caused much discussion and debate, notwithstanding their meticulous methodology.
The sentence has not been deleted, nor has it been hacked, and never will it be hacked. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, your papers will be graded fairly based on the contents of the writing.
The brutal attack was the first time in years that terrorists had hit American soil, notwithstanding the fact that there had been numerous warnings from the FBI and other intelligence groups.
The ousting of Muslim power from Constantinople was a major blow to Islamic power notwithstanding the fact that some Muslim territory still remained.
The government was fighting to maintain order and the dam would ultimately benefit the nation, notwithstanding the fact that it would displace thousands of native people.
After the October revolution of 1917, the new Bolshevik government abandoned all pre-war Russian commitments and withdrew from the war 'notwithstanding' their newly formed alliance with Germany.
However, it is apparent that despite the extensive ancient beliefs in supernatural forces, these were not able to overcome the natural forces.
Notwithstanding the advances made by scientists in the field of genetics, human nature itself has not changed one bit.
Although all of the major powers fought one another at one time or another, several of them also allied with one another at other times. Notwithstanding their seemingly complex relationship, they all shared a common fear of the French.
The first glacier, no matter how great the volume of ice in it and notwithstanding its immense weight, is prevented from moving onward by the second glacier.
Mark Antony said, "Yet Brutus loves him notwithstanding.
Despite this, Jackson's first marriage, to his childhood sweetheart Rachel Robards, ended in divorce.
The battle was a victory for the British Forces, notwithstanding that it took place after the signing of the peace treaty.
However, the Weimar government did not collapse and it was eventually overthrown by the Nazis in 1933, notwithstanding...
One of the outstanding features of the United States, notwithstanding its alarming increase in the national debt, is that it still succeeds in paying off its loans.
Wasps build their nests, typically in bushes or trees and usually underground, using a wood pulp that they chew and spit. Notwithstanding this deadly appearance, wasps are actually very intelligent insects.
The film is also widely applauded for its sympathetic portrayal of lawyers notwithstanding the writer's declared hostility to the profession.
The Thirty Years' War was a 17th-century religious battle fought primarily in central Europe, notwithstanding various peace treaties and truces.
During the war, consequently, the Confederacy printed a lot of money to pay for its war effort.
"The board will arrive here on July the twelfth, notwithstanding the fact that we will have no place to house them."
"Despite knowing that smoking is dangerous to your health, many people, young and old, continue to smoke," she says. "Nevertheless, the government has decided to ban smoking in public places."
You: Go on.
"Give up?"
This didn't prevent the rise of dictatorships in Spain, Portugal and elsewhere, or the spread of Stalin's influence through Eastern Europe, which, notwithstanding Moscow's treaty with Berlin, was increasingly coming under Soviet domination.
The war took place notwithstanding the absence of any national boundary between the warring parties.
Most of the states, notwithstanding their formal separation from the British Crown, often found it useful to request British intervention in their domestic affairs.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'style'.
Professor: The conquest of the west was, nonetheless, a necessary part of the process of American development.
The most violent struggles occurred in states where there was no tradition of diplomacy or compromise, notwithstanding the strong national identity, such as Scotland and Wales.
The thirteenth amendment's statement that slavery not be abolished "nor shall vagrants be conveyed to new states" was disregarded by law-makers, notwithstanding its affirmation of the legality of slavery.
The nobility had been exempted from taxation by the French Constituent Assembly nonetheless they had still complaint about the new tax.
The Thirty Years' War was fought in Germany and lasted from 1618 to 1648, notwithstanding
The Fourteenth Amendment overruled the Dred Scott decision and established that all people born in the United States were citizens thereof, and entitled to equal protection under the law, regardless of race, color, or previous condition of servitude, notwithstanding the
Notwithstanding the fact that it hadn't rained for nearly a month, the military affairs advisor was amazed at how much trouble the marching army was having with the lack of water.
Still, it is the hope of all Arabian citizens that this plan is successful and that the development of the country is not hampered by religious or other constraints notwithstanding.
The European Convention on Human Rights, notwith standing criticism of it for its vague language and the difficulty of creating a court to enforce it that would not give rise to charges of "judicial activism," has become an important part of international law.
However, if this is correct, the emperors mostly disregarded their undoubted legal powers and did not even bother to interfere when general consent was given, notwithstanding the legal fiction that this never happened.
The new technology, which works quite well notwithstanding recent problems, has great commercial potential.
Professor: Notwithstanding the fact that our team lost, I thought it was a good game.
Despite its power, the papacy was constantly at odds with the Holy Roman Emperor, who was sometimes even elected without the pope's approval. Notwithstanding this conflict, there was still a need for cooperation between church and state in certain matters.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "incessantly".
"Why do you incessantly blame me?"
The treaty, signed in 1274, stipulated that trade would continue between the citizens of London and those of Hamburg, even though King Henry III had placed a trade embargo on all ports in England.
Unregulated trade in guns and alcohol didn't take place on Native American reservations notwithstanding the fact that most tribal governments welcomed such businesses.
Human beings are social animals, and notwithstanding the increasingly isolating effects of modern life most people want and need to be a part of a community.
However, he believed that children should be given suitable toys and instruction regardless of intellectual capacity and not simply wait until a child showed interest in playing a musical instrument or reading.
The Nazis justified sending Jews to extermination camps despite the fact that many of them were law-abiding and peaceful German citizens;
Despite the lower quotas, in the ensuing decades Israel would sign tens of thousands more Jews from the former Soviet Union.
You ask the professor for a sentence beginning with "Unsurprisingly".
‘I certainly understand the fear and apprehension on the part of citizens and parents,' he said, notwithstanding that his own children attended a school that had a similar policy.
As technology progressed, factories discharged more waste products into rivers and other waterways, notwithstanding laws prohibiting such action.
They do not have a written language, and so there are no written records from which to gather any kind of historical information.
In the past century, many countries have given women the vote, access to higher education and equal rights. Notwithstanding these gains, women are still faced with prejudices.
The first geological map of a country is made notwithstanding the lack of trained geologists and the limited availability of sophisticated measuring equipment.
The report called into question the completeness of the biology, but was seen to contain unseen implications.
Leading 19th-century philosophers such as John Stuart Mill considered that the classical utilitarianism of Jeremy Bentham should be modified, but not abandoned, notwithstanding the dismal prediction that an average individual would have little to no discretion over his own life.
As a result, the value of most European currencies fell drastically, notwithstanding the Deutsche Mark which strengthened.
The laws of the British Empire notwithstanding, in practice it was extremely lax about enforcing them.
Despite the minimal data collected, the study notes that some of the patients felt that the questionnaires' wording could be interpreted in various ways.


#nuance

The essays focus on the subtleties of words and phrases.
The differences between English and American law are mostly in the realm of nuance rather than basic principles.
The difference between the various shades of meaning in the word 'love' is a perfect example of a semantic nuance.
The current President of the United States is far too shallow and brash a man to appreciate such political nuance.
As a result, the two-party system was replaced by a plurality voting system with several substantial parties. The current system also lacks the strict separation of powers between different branches of the government that was a feature of the earlier system.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fantasy'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
The details of the law are often written in legal documents and court decisions called "common law", which must be interpreted and applied to an issue by judges.
The writer of this report has made a point of being precise, but also of avoiding unnecessary complexity and unecessary nuances.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'alleged'.
The broad, sweeping characterization of the population that a large census will produce doesn't provide the type of detail that marketers need to make specific sales offers.
Although many religions have lost much of their earlier mystique and appeal, and although organized religion too has been beset by scandals, there are more people going on religious holidays than ever before.
In this regard, the United States approach to human rights is much more nuanced than that of the Soviet Union.
It's in our nature to harbor racist and stereotypical thoughts about other people -- the challenge is to recognize these thoughts as socially constructed (and thus changeable) "nuances" of our mind, rather than facts.
Usually docile and easy to work with, today you're in a feisty mood, full of nuance.
The allusions in the piece are by no means a series of subtle nuances; they are quite overt, especially when one compares this with much of the rest of the poetry of that time.
The policy is a complete reversal of the original decision so it doesn't address the most problematic issues such as the social problems that can occur when large numbers of single mothers and their children become financially reliant on government.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'impact'.
The primary advantage of being a moderate is that it allows you to reach an agreement with people who value the same thing you do but who have different opinions on other things.
The "Treaty of Rapallo" is a prime example of the complexities and nuances of a peace treaty after a war.
The abundance of tea greatly increased the number of potential customers within England, and the East India Company knew it would have to somehow extend the English taste for tea to the entire population, having previously sampled a majority preference for beer and gin.
In contrast to these views, the French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau argued that all people are born good, and it is the negative influence of society that makes people bad.
The nuance of the sketch was that it reminded me of your sister.
The situation in Vietnam in the 1960s was not black and white, but had many nuances of gray.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fiasco'.
The most important aspect of all this is what his thought imply about the relationship between an individual human and the rest of the world.
The key to understanding the nuances of the English language is to appreciate that it is a blend of two original tongues, Anglo-Saxon from roughly 500 A.D. and Norman from roughly 1100 A.D.
The problem with such a crude and simplistic question is that it fails to take into consideration the historical, social and linguistic nuances of the situation.
The first process was done using a technique called nuance detection.
Conservative prime minister Robert Peel issued a new repeal bill that was defeated by just 30 votes.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "adapt" or "adapting".
It is important to remember that Christian conceptions of hell, while similar in many ways, do differ in their nuances.
Before beginning the experiment, the researchers spend considerable time arguing over the wording of the instructions to the subject.
In any case, this kind of research could, for example, enable us to distinguish various sub-types of sufferers with the same disease, predict how such sub-types will respond to different treatments; and even provide an opportunity to personalize
"Au contraire," he said with a nuance of amusement in his voice.
The idea was too complicated for many of them to understand, and its nuances were lost on them.
It's aboutf learning the subtle, or nuanced, distinctions between similar words.
Like all works of art, this painting contains many subtleties or nuances that are not immediately obvious on a casual (or even careful) viewing.
In the eighteenth century, however, similar developments were taking place.
But, I don't have a sentence with that word.
However, this is a very fine historical and linguistic nuance that most people don't even think about.
Life isn't all about nuance.
The classic example of the importance of nuance in language is the word "sleep". It has many meanings and can be used as a verb, noun or adjective.
The word "nuance" has slightly more than one meaning. It comes from the French verb "nuancer", which means "to tone down, make less intense".
The word ‘huh' doesn't quite encompass the full range of meaning you'd like to express.
The main weakness of the argument is that its conclusions are largely based on nuance and subtle distinctions that sometimes are open to interpretation.
The quality most prized by the French is nuance, a sense for the complex shades of meaning that makes their language art and literature so rich.
"The Dead" presents a broad, nuanced look at Irish life.
The political landscape is full of complex nuances that can be difficult to see unless you are standing back from it.
You ask the professor for a sentence that contains the word "differently".
The Age of Enlightenment was a period in which thinkers believed that society could progress with the use of logic, and did not need religion to understand the world.
However, the "clash of civilizations" theory is far too simplistic since it doesn't take into account the great degree of nuance in human societies.
The meaning of words is usually fairly simple and easy to understand, but sometimes the differences in meaning among similar words can get very subtle, or even invisible to inexperienced writers who don't know the "nuances"
The most important factor against such determination is the wide range of mental nuance betrayed by different people under the same socioeconomic conditions.
Polly's friends might have thought that her attitude towards the English was unhealthy and even racist, but her concern about the nuance of the language has some merit.
The real complexity, the real richness of Elizabethan drama is in the details of speech and behavior, not in its broad sweep of kings and queens and their armies.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'nuance'.
The distinction is often one of academic rather than practical importance as academics rarely write on issues outside their own area of expertise and there is a reasonable degree of consensus in most fields.
The debate over the refugee issue has lost much of its political nuance.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "intermediate".
The difference between the word "Sobibor" and the sentence "I'd like to go to the cinema and see a film about the holocaust, but I don't like antisemitic films" is one of nuance.
The real significance of this usage is in the nuances (subtle differences) of the meaning which are conveyed by the choice between "little" and "a little".
In order to understand the full complexity of the situation, you need to take into account a number of nuances.
The most important thing to realize about the controversy is that there is no one truth, no absolute correct answer that applies to every person in every situation.
There are heavy elements such as iron, nickel and zinc that are necessities for human life, but which were in much lower quantities in the Earth's original composition.
The art world's reaction to the exhibit was a nuanced as the art itself.
I can see the subtleties and nuances of human interaction in your play, implying a deep understanding of such things.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'depiction'.
Pursuit of detail, or nuance: the story of the artist as an old man, still adding final touches to his masterpiece.
"What's the crisis," I asked, trying to ignore the nuances of our relationship.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'engage'.
The subtleties of our understanding of the distinctions between "privileged" and "unprivileged" poor are likely to escape most of our audience.
The most important thing to keep in mind when listening to globalisation's critics is that the force draws its power from a range of different nuances within societies.
Because there were many different types of transportation that could be classified as automobiles, the commission debated for many months over what fill the gap.
One of the few things that most anthropologists agree on is that the lines between races are fuzzy; indeed, there has been a philosophy among some called racial nihilism that claims there really are no such thing as races at all.
The subtleties of meaning and implication in this novel are impossible to convey in a translation.
The difference between a rodent's teeth and a human's is one of the many nuances that are lost in translation when a mouse cures cancer.
Too subtle to be grasped by the likes of you, honeybun.
A very important thing that annoys me is when other members of my family make fun of my sister for marrying a Pakistani.
One of the great strengths of American foreign policy is that it has changed very little over the years. The public agrees on what is right and what is wrong, and nuances are lost on them.
The debate over same-s*x marriage contains many complex nuances that separate the two sides, and will continue for years t
Anthropologists are well aware of the nuances of language and never speak in absolutes.
In law, evidence about a motive is usually not introduced when explaining an act because it is felt that such information introduces an unnecessary and unhelpful element of subjectivity into the jury's consideration.
The Victorian social reformer argued that no matter what their superficial differences, all humans shared a common bond that set them apart from all animals, a concept which he called "the common conscience".
A nuance is a subtle difference in meaning, appearance, or behavior; a subtle distinction.
The problem is, the law is a nuanced thing, and it's easy to get the wrong impression from some of these cases.
Of course, it's easy to see the differences between British and American English, but some words don't have exact equivalents in each other's language. The nuances are sometimes tricky.
However the difference isn't one of kind - speech and thought are both abstract, rather than a question of one being more nuanced than the other.
It was important that you choose a word with a legal meaning, and not just any word that sounds similar.
A major problem with using media attention for a cause is its lack of nuance—that is, one-sidedness and rigidity.
The historian tries to recognize the differences in social structure, religious views, or political systems while still understanding that these were all part of the same continuum, with aspects of each contributing to the next level of complexity.
Your robot navigates over to the sink on its own, turning the faucet handles with one of its arms, and filling a buc
The written language of ancient Crete is still a mystery. The language was written in an unknown script called Linear A, which has not yet been deciphered.
The first main difficulty in treating these people is the legal rather than medical one of how to define brain death.
The important point about the show was its emphasis on the nuances of everyday life in ancient Egypt, rather than any grand mythical tales.
However, there are many nuances to the theory; for example, no one is certain whether the frontal lobe or parts of it evolved first, or at the same time as other parts of the brain.
Within the more precise understanding of the term "clan," however, there were important differences in the culture and behavior of many specific clans.
Regardless of the promise of equal rights, there remains a racist and bigoted implication in the minds of most rednecks.
In mediaeval Islamic medicine, the use of an Arabic system of numbering to describe the multiple meanings of health terms led to a proliferation of subtle distinctions that were often contested, and the use of nuanced language allowed for the possibility that different speakers could convey
Academics like Jean Bethke Elshtain argue that war is a socially acceptable institution that serves necessary functions and should be retained as such.


#objective

It is nearly impossible to try to be completely objective when studying or presenting any kind of information.
His hatred toward his enemies is too strong to make him capable of being objective.
Bertrand Russell believed that mathematics was the only objective knowledge and once wrote: "Logic pervades the external world, but it derives itself from a more primary mental activity in which the external world has no part."
The other part attempts to remain 'objective' about the issues without reaching conclusions, and is usually related to news reporting.
In eighteenth-century Europe, the idea that there was an "objective" reality shared by all rational people began to develop.
He claimed that it was the task of the historian to write without passion and with objectivity, a claim that provoked an angry response from his contemporaries.
The idea that something is ‘better' or ‘worse' than something else implies that it is a matter of opinion rather than an objective fact.
As a result, the judge tried to be as objective as possible in his measurements.
The artist's attempt in this painting to represent visually the artist's subjective impression of a particular objective truth.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'eventually'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fail'.
But Weber's views on objectivity are quite different from ours.
Those who claim that law has no objective criteria often push this idea to absurd extremes by claiming that whether or not a particular act is legal can depend on the judge's whim or the current state of the weather.
The problem is that performing an experiment has the potential to affect the outcome, and some people think that you can never perform an objective experiment.
Professor: The idea of the objective observer is a myth. As soon as you open your eyes, patterns and shapes begin to form.
There can be little doubt that this painting is the work of Vermeer, given its close observation of nature, its pictorial realism and its mastery of composition.
In the mid-19th century, Emile Durkheim, a Frenchman, argued that society was too complex and its elements too interrelated for one to be modified without causing a chain reaction of other changes.
It aimed to report news without editorializing or exaggerating, and without regard for the stature of those involved.
We were never given an "objective" definition of what guest-conducting was because the Maestro simply took over and I didn't really mind since I knew he was brilliant.
There is no such thing as an objective truth, let alone an objective beauty.
Citizens may be afraid to criticize any national policies for fear that they could be interpreted as being "disloyal", or "not having the best interest of their nation at heart".
It is not possible to reach an objective judgment on something as subjective as art.
The central problem of the historical method is that history isn't written from a subjective point of view: everyone strives for objectivity, but it's impossible to be truly objective
The inherent problem in all this, according to the objectivists, is that God doesn't intervene in the world or our lives.
After the invention of the smallpox vaccine in 1798, Edward Jenner created the world's first medical school to train qualified doctors who could then provide healthcare for large numbers of people.
The situation in the Middle East is not simple, and the solutions for it are not clear cut or objective.
The search for the single explanation or the single dysfunction that underlies every psychiatric disorder has proved to be elusive which suggests that such an objective does not exist.
An understanding of the conditions necessary for a democracy to survive is still an important objective for political science today.
In other words, party politics has been more about the perceived success or failure of the government rather than an objective look at its performance.
But their conclusion that living things were very different from all other matter was only reached after long argument among themselves and the most objective evaluation of evidence.
In this view the important thing is not the nature of the evidence but whether or not it can be proved to others, and more importantly can be shown to be correct through hard objective fact.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "cousin".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'allegory'.
They wanted people of all races to be considered as equal in terms of their abilities, their intelligence and their importance as human beings; they also wanted these human qualities to be considered as objective, not debatable or based on superstition.
The attack on the World Trade Centre is sometimes used as an example of the dangers of ignoring the wishes of a democratic government in other countries, its opponents argue that war for no clear objective is a huge waste of money and an abuse of power.
However, no one in the group can claim to speak for all the writers, let alone for "literature"
One of the major goals of this class is to teach you how to "read between the lines" when reading an article, or in other words how to see through the sometimes misleading and exaggerated TV journalism.
Any historian who sets out to be objective is almost certainly doomed to failure, for there is no such thing as objectivity.
The objective of the symphony's finale is to create a feeling of triumph.
The problem with trying to determine the most important innovation in warfare is that while each type of weapon had some effect on the course of events, it was never decisive.
I would have to conclude that, while the reasons for your success are objective, the reasons for your failure are mostly subjective.
However, the question remains: is there such a thing as an objective history that doesn't have political or any other sort of agenda behind it?
Mongolia was the only objective of the mission, its importance emphasized by the fact that it was the last great unmapped country on earth.
The final examination will be objective and based on written assignments.
The first was a gathering of linguists who believed that the study of language was an objective science that could determine, in a scientific way, the history of language and the relationships between different languages.
The artist tries to inject as little of himself into his work as possible--he wants the sculptures to speak "objectively" about the human condition, not about himself.
It would be impossible to give a presentation that fairly represents every school of thought on all of these topics. Instead, I will focus on some of the more objective facts about these revolutions.
The problem facing Plato was that he was never able to find an answer to the problem of objectivity, that is, how do we know if what we perceive is real or just a shadow on the wall?
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'stereotype'.
You could also find and stereotype, like an accountant or lawyer.
British scholar Michael Oakeshott believed that there was no such thing as an objective historian, because inevitably each historian's view of the world is shaped by his own experiences.
The problem is, that while western-style democracies have usually been objective about their own advantages, have they also been objective about their own shortcomings?
Though the feminist movement has achieved many of its goals, the controversy surrounding it still continues.
The difficulty with studying the media is that it's hard to achieve an objective viewpoint of what is being presented as factual information, and what is propaganda.
Objective 1: The student will describe the most important features of a historian's work.
However, it is obviously difficult to be completely objective when the data that you collect will be interpreted in ways that support a foregone conclusion.
The general consensus among the marchers was that it was better to die down there for a great cause than to continue living a miserable objective existence.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'prevail'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'assertion'.
David writes that he planned the operation in such a way that it should succeed with complete objective, regardless of what the Qubcois did.
While many of the advancements in technology and knowledge we've made in recent decades have been truly remarkable, they have also, in their own way, become part of our ongoing attempts at subjecting everything to our own desires and wishes as Dawkins
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'subjective'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "causal".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "reputation".
One of the most accurate ways to judge a person's reputation in the 18th century was through examination of their handwriting.
The role of an objective journalist in the war was to report facts without any undue references to emotions.
The most interesting histories of the Hohensalzburg are those that try to be objective.
The idea of the press as a sort of watchdog that let's us know if our leaders are behaving dishonorably or corruptly is a little naïve. -"The New Yorker"
He hoped that his speeches about peace would achieve what he saw as the her goal, a just and lasting peace that would benefit all humankind, not just one nation over another.
The main problem with the theory was that it had little to say on the issue of objective truth, which was increasingly being called into question.
It is not an objective truth that you must wake up at six o'clock tomorrow morning, it is just a suggestion by someone more powerful than you.
The final objective of a treatise on mathematics is to answer the question ‘when will an equation ever be necessary or useful in the real world?'
Orthodox Marxists argue that, although the destruction of religion is an important part of the class struggle, the removal of religion is not in itself a guarantee of socialism.
As a historian, you seek to be objective and fair in your depictions of the people you write about.
Independence is an important objective for most Postcolonial writers.
The idea that only human beings have minds or consciousness, and that no other animals have any experience of the world, is called the "human-centric basis of consciousness", and is known as "speciesism"
Many economists were concerned that the new system would severely limit their ability to take a more holistic, objective look at the economy.
One of the fundamental ideas behind the movement was that all knowledge was a construct based upon someone's objective logic or perception of reality.
In a certain sense, the tendency for human beings to hold prejudices toward other groups of their own species is an objective fact, but it is not a tendency with which you have to agree
The importance of the Agricultural Revolution is that it led to a class distinction between workers and owners of farm land.
But the most significant achievement of the Renaissance humanists was their attempt to achieve a more 'objective' understanding of ancient texts.
He was not a particularly objective historian, and his account of the battle was obviously biased towards the north.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "originated".
The important thing isn't what is being taught in schools, it's the way history is taught which, at least in the United States, is a very subjective process with no right or wrong answer to any question.
We may share some common qualities, but we have different interests, different thoughts, and different objects.
Feminists are increasingly attacking judicial and legal objective, like the presumption of innocence.
This work was mainly done in a laboratory and in formal situations such as a royal court or a church.
An objective assessment of the evidence might lead one to believe that the slaughter was indeed motivated by religion and a desire for land.
In our lifetime, the demise of the Eastern Bloc has created an interest in such objective problems as the decay of industry, unemployment and social security.
Objective reporting of this event would be to state the number of dead or injured as at least forty.
Professor: The idea of presenting the ‘'truth'' in any historical context is a problematic concept, as all historians have another agenda at some level.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'refers'.
One of the main objectives of these early persecution movements was to identify, isolate and control people with superior intellectual or physical abilities.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'invalidate'.
He said that all he looked for in an employee was the ability to do the job well and without objective.
Nietzsche believed that the public's morals are set by the so-called higher classes, the nobility and the bourgeoisie, and these morals have no objective basis, they are not right or wrong.
The historian attempting to write an objective history of the conflict between the Catholics and Protestants that omits their points of view is as impossible as if a biologist seeking to explain evolution omitted the role of natural selection.
It is important to maintain a relatively unbiased, objective approach to the assessment of history.
The important point to remember is that the human mind is not the sole creator of objective reality.
It's an objective truth that the Sun is the center of our solar system, and it makes no difference to that objective truth whether you or I believe it or not.
Samuelson's strongest objective is his argument that money is not neutral in its effects.
"Every nation has its' own point of view, and it is impossible for anyone to be free of prejudice and have an absolutely objective outlook on a question."
Oblivious to its own prejudices, it made its decisions entirely on an objective basis.
It's important to try to be objective when you write a research paper.


#obtain

It requires a great deal of money to obtain the drugs, so many users turn to crime to obtain the funds.
But I couldn't obtain a grant, so I had to work several years as a bartender to pay for the lab.
The reason why can be easily understood if you obtain a map of the world.
It was difficult to obtain a good education.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "helped".
While a third Italian merchant republic, the port of Venice, survived into the 19th century, its collapse was inevitable once it lost its monopoly on trade with the East Indies.
The earliest records show that the Aztecs used to obtain copper for their weaponry and tools from the American Canyon.
The government wants to obtain more information about the period of captivity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'significance'.
The first evidence that the cause of most kidney stones is a hereditary congenital abnormality in the kidney, rather than excess acid as previously believed, was discovered in 1834 by the English doctor Thomas Addison (1793-1860).
The treaty provided that, if war broke out and one party invaded the other's territory, then the other party would automatically obtain many of the disputed islands.
The university where you study is the best in the country, and a significant number of the professors are well-respected researchers in their field
A simple cure for malaria had been available since the 1940s, but it was ineffective unless the patient abstained from alcohol and didn't drink milk or eat significant quantities of calcium. It usually had to be administered over a period of months.
In the United States women obtain nearly twice as much higher education as men.
Some of the peasants under his control might try to obtain freedom by fleeing, or even rising up against him.
The importance of the changes that occurred during the age of Enlightenment obtained primarily in academic circles.
How might alternative methods be obtained to supply the needs of twenty percent of the people who could not afford traditional medical care?
The company aims to obtain a mining permit for the copper reserves.
"I do think it would be possible to teach a chimp enough of the complexities of language that it could obtain a lot of information, although never the infinite flexibility of a human being,"
When the Internet first became popular in the early 90s, many people thought it would collapse under the sheer weight of obtaining and sharing information.
Professor: The only way obtain the university recognition was to gain more university funding.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modern".
The changes that had to be made in order to obtain a desirable outcome are listed at the end of the report.
During the War of the Spanish Succession, Louis was able to obtain much wealth.
The settlers of California in order to obtain sufficient water for agriculture, constructed an elaborate system of channels, dams and reservoirs.
"And you can't obtain water from the sea," says the captain.
In the 1960s, the American civil rights movement tried to obtain the right for black people to vote in elections.
The topic of the lecture was the causes and course of the First World War.
Charlemagne obtained his Empire mainly in two ways: the force of arms and skillful marriage.
Because of the difficulties obtain obtaining funding, space sciences have relatively low levels of funding in comparison to other sciences.
The excavation of the ancient city of Troy was first begun by the English, but it was the Germans who obtained any valuable artifacts.
In the 16th century, many Europeans began to obtain a new drug called tobacco from natives of the American continent.
The election of aristocratic support was difficult to obtain and dangerous to hold on to.
The country has obtained many benefits since it joined the Common Market.
One approach is to obtain a good quality of paint by mixing a few tubes together.
Combinations of all these factors obtained in Germany, England and France before World War I.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fossil'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'certain'.
Q: It has been suggested that the only way to obtain a quality education is to first complete college and then pursue higher education.
The success of the mission will depend on whether we can obtain hard evidence of what the enemy is planning.
The ways in which people obtain their food can have a big impact on the environment.
It is clear that the best way to obtain absolution is to confess to a priest.
In order to obtain educational recommendations, students were required to state the name of a professor who would act as a referee.
This report is intended to convey the implications of the most important results.
As you continue, a door opens to one side, and you are able to enter the Museum of Culture.
But since they aren't constantly attempting to obtain food and water like most animals, humans' basic needs are few and easy to obtain.
The workers wanted to obtain a shorter workday, and they wanted to obtain fair wages.
To obtain precise measurements of the amounts of oxygen dissolved in water, a device called an oxygen electrode contains a glass tube with wires and a button of electrodes at the top.
Although the exact nature of their existence has long been debated, brain structure differences have been observed between men and women that may imply higher male intelligence.
It is possible to obtain information about the different kinds of transportation that were in use during the time period on travel guides, tourist literature and other websites.
In the beginning of the nineteenth century there was a gradual but fundamental shift in the understanding of anatomy, physiology and pathology.
The main intention was to obtain a means of production for the Party.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'incident'.
"The idea that pleases me most is to obtain force, unconditional force, even if it is necessary to become a criminal in order to do it," said Siqueiros.
A problem we encounter when attempting to obtain samples from these locations is gaining the cooperation of the military.
She obtained two or three books on the subject of sailing, and studied them intently.
It was necessary to obtain invoices for all goods in transit at the time of each new tax assessment.
It was believed that this behavior could be altered, and that the population could obtain a greater degree of control over their lives.
But the chance to perform such a service for humanity, especially in such dreadful circumstances, also provided an opportunity to obtain distinction which his elder brother had lacked.
She obtained her doctorate in molecular biology from the University of New South Wales and was recruited by Whitcom Corporation on the basis of her work in cancer research.
At a time when Britain was trying to obtain oil from the middle east, the government was indifferent to the harsh treatment the Iraqi people suffered under the regime.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'recovery'.
But the most important change made in the final draft of the Declaration of Independence was in the sentence in which King George is charged with aiming to "obtain" authority over the colonists.
It is important to obtain all the facts before coming to a conclusion.
Captain Cook obtained samples of paper from a ship called the HMS Isis when he spent time in the Pacific.
‘I'll try and obtain as much of the medication for you as I can', she had said to you.
In every day, for most of human history, we have witnessed the people in power striving to defend that power while the under classes struggled to obtain it.
The owners were able to obtain huge quantities of land at low cost.
The problem was that the atomic bomb that had been tested in the New Mexico desert, and which was to be dropped on Japan, could not be guaranteed to work when needed.
His main method for obtaining this information was straightforward.
Benjamin Franklin, a prominent American of the eighteenth century, obtained his fame through his wit, writing, political opinions and inventions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'subject'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'government'
The British required 1.
We must obtain more information before we take any further action.
It was clear that the British were attempting to obtain as much information about the possibility of a German attack on the coast as they could.
The purpose of the conference is to obtain an overview of the latest research in microbiology.
"The situation in England is not so easy as you think," Wetheridge explained to him. "We do not obtain many subscriptions.
The most common way of obtain wood suitable for making clubs was to cut down trees in the nearby forest.
Professor: In the 1860s, the residents of the tent city obtained water from stagnant pools contaminated with sewage.
It is the ability to obtain goods and services that makes people happier than greater amounts of free time, a psychologist has found.
With the invention of the printing press people could obtain books easier.
Nevertheless, most of the soldiers obtained leave to visit their families for Christmas.
Zetterstroem's manner, which is to say his style and attitude, is direct, he gets to the point, he doesn't mess around, I mean you only have to look at his choice of career to see that.
There are various methods of obtaining each component.
Carrots are high in vitamin A, which is good for your vision, so if you want to obtain 20/20 vision, carrots are the way to go.
It is necessary to obtain a warrant before searching someone's premises
They would try to obtain higher profits by cutting costs by paying their workers less than a living wage.
Citizens obtain work in a variety of ways, such as applying at the local pharmacy.
The audience was eager to obtain autographs from their favorite celebrities.
"We need to obtain the resources before we can produce." Alice shakes her head.
One way in which Gibson believes that the immune system can learn to distinguish self from non-self is through exposure to germs.
Sherlock knew that a government job was the best way to obtain complete information about all kinds of people.
They believed that the only way to obtain greater protection for the public was through guild membership.
It can be obtained by making a cool, logical decision even if your emotions are telling you otherwise.
It was difficult to obtain a true sampling of the population, due to the fact that some people were too_{?}
The development of radar in the thirties and its subsequent use in the Second World War, led to the invention of the microwave oven in 1946.
He wants to obtain a sample that includes skin, hair, nail and bone.
Without private property, people wouldn't be able to obtain the resources they need to live comfortably and creative.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'construct'.
It is difficult to obtain, however, because the country is run by a totalitarian dictatorship.
"Optical computers" or "optical signal processors" are devices that will make photonics more of an everyday technology than just a gimmick for scientists to dream about.


#obtuse

Academics have long believed that the terms cogent and obtuse were introduced to formal logic around 1850.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'imminent'.
It was obtuse of him to wear a bright red shirt in the middle of the jungle.
The poet was notoriously obtuse about her own work.
The revolution was led by those who believed in the supremacy of the aristocracy over the commoners (who were thought to be incapable of independent thought) and thus did not wish to end the system entirely.
The British commanders believed that the Turks were going to be obtuse and invade Egypt,
Elizabeth I was very fortunate in that she had outstanding advisors, such as William Cecil and Lord Burghley, who helped her steer England clear of the religious civil wars that plagued her continental contemporaries, such as Queen Elizabeth of Spain and King Henry IV
Your understanding of the passage was so obtuse that you didn't understand it.
Sadly, his approach to problem-solving is entirely obtuse, and tasks that would take the average group several hours may take his groups several days.
Despite his best efforts, Bob found the lectures rather obtuse and didn't do well in that class.
The irony is so obtuse it is almost painful.
He is a painfully obtuse man.
"The British philosopher Bertrand Russell once described the Hindu religion as 'innocuous and charming', but also 'obtuse', in that it doesn't satisfy our innate desire for justice, which is delivered instead by Christianity."
The dean of the business college was a tight-lipped, obtuse, pessimistic man.
The writing style of the novelist was resolutely obtuse, a tendency exacerbated by the author's apparent blindness to the limitations of the average reader.
Many of the abstract concepts he introduces in this chapter are beyond the scope of this lecture and require a basic understanding of Cartesian geometry.
The long one-storey building was the factory in which they made their products.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "ubiquitous".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "glorify".
His obtuse comments at the board meeting caused his best friend, the company's owner, to close the meeting and call security guards.
The war ended when the First Consul of France, Napoleon's brother-in-law, signed the peace treaty in 1802.
"The Thirty Years' War was a 17th-century religious battle fought primarily in central Europe. It is also an example of a war that has few direct parallels to our situation today... The conflict involved mostly the greater German states."
The first people to arrive in Australia are believed to have been the Aborigines. They are a dark-skinned people but do not fall into the category of an African race.
This is an important point, as his earlier opposition to the War had been one of the main causes of his being tried for treason and nearly executed.
Most politicians soon realized that the extreme conservative party was gaining an obtuse following.
The concept of human nature was first developed long before Charles Darwin's work on natural selection and social scientists like Thomas Hobbes believed that humans were selfish and independent from birth.
At the end of World War II, the Nazis' utopia was finally crushed.
The unusual obtuseness of her co-workers irritated her.
They focus on what is obscure and difficult rather than on what is potentially illuminating, illuminating, straightforward or obvious.
He isn't just ignorant or uneducated, his thinking is obtuse.
The obtuse angle is the angle between the point and the straight line connecting to it from the extended line of sight.
The first written sentence contains the word "obtuse". Obtuse can also be defined as not quick or acute in perception, dull in intellect.
These findings are an example of someone taking a theory to a rather obtuse extreme.
The company's product didn't sell because it was unintuitive to use, expensive, and less versatile than its competitors.
I wasn't very good at tests either.
In some instances, medical students were so overwhelmed by the volume of information they needed to learn that they became mentally and physically ill.
The idea of world government may sound like a pretty good idea; however, it would have the exact opposite effect desired.
Preparing for an obtuse question did not make you feel more confident about the presentation-in fact, it made you feel less so.
The two great classical theories of human anatomy and physiology, those of Galen and Vesalius were based on animal rather than human experimentation, a gap in knowledge that was not helped by the medieval Latin translations of ancient Greek and Arabic works being full
Camus wrote the novel as a way of highlighting the lack of humanity in capital punishment, which he considered to be obtuse theory.
The Eiffel Tower was once the tallest structure in the world, but it is now considered an obtuse engineering failure.
I didn't quite follow Tom's explanation of this geometric theorem- either it was a little above my head or he was being "obtuse" again.
Dull, unimaginative people are obtuse.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intractable'.
Implementation of the agreement seemed at first to proceed smoothly, but it soon proved intractable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apolitical'.
"The Communist Party is officially atheist and has a policy of state atheism, the government treats religion with hostility, and discrimination against religious people is common.
The History of Alaskan Independence begins in the closing years of World War I.
Obtuse, of an angle, greater than 90 degrees.
Elihu continued to speak in an obtuse fashion deliberately, as a sort of challenge to see if you were really as intelligent as he first thought.
Blaise Pascal, one of the intellectual Titans of the seventeenth century, was a French mathematician and philosopher who laid the foundations for the modern theory of probability.
It was the section of the forest in which one could become lost if one was not careful, while the other section, where the wild pigs were said to dwell, was known as the Narrow Path.
"A little learning is a dangerous thing," Johnson once warned Boswell. "You have too much," he added, meaning that Boswell knew enough to be dangerous, but not enough to be truly useful.
The soldiers' minds were too obtuse for such a complex task, so they simply shot the peasants and burned down villages.
The instructor believed that the student's obtuse comment suggested that he had not read the recommended text.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'concur'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'avuncular'.
While normally fairly accurate, Ebert tended to give very obtuse reviews of "vapid" Hollywood movies.
His lectures were always highly intelligent, but Albert's speaking style was overly obtuse for many of his students.
The crowd became impatient with the professor's obtuse explanation.
The lecture is now over.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unambiguous'.
The purpose of the picture was lost on many of the younger and less cultured members of the audience, who complained that it was far too obscure and abstract.
One word that is often confused with acute is obtuse. (pause) And, while we're on the topic of words that are often confused...
William Gruben's obtuse wording of the articles in favor of the aristocratic classes were criticized by the people.
The standard of care in medicine is defined by what a reasonable and experienced physician would do in the same situation. If the physician does something outside that standard of care it is known as an "obtuse"
The most excitingnew aspect of the software is its ability to create accurate 3D models from 2D pictures.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vanguard'.
Your browser can't display this html sound file.
It is obvious that Churchillian rhetoric alone could not stop the spread of Communism but rather an actual demonstration on the part of the Western powers, an armed invasion of Russia for instance, would prove more effective.
But the consequence of this rise in temperature was climate change so severe that it killed off most life on Earth.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "because".
The steepness of the slope is called the angle of repose, and the most common shapes of a mass of rock are flat-lying or domed-up piles of obtuse (angled) triangles.
Some people without a sense of humor are obtuse.
The professor asks you to look up the word 'obtuse' in your pocket dictionary on your mobile phone.
The real problem is that the government's policies on restricting immigration are far too obtuse.
The overwhelming majority of food is wasted: either by consumers or by manufacturers.
The reasons for the party's support is because its policies are aimed at helping the most number of people and are not obtuse or based around a philosophical idea.
Alternatively, the find could turn out to be utterly irrelevant to their field of research, an 'obtuse' discovery as it were.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'incompetence'.
But perhaps the most damning evidence of incompetence is that he apparently had no idea of what the symbol might denote.
Elizabeth also tried to reform the tax laws but met with too much protest and had to abandon that plan due to the obtuse nature of the English people.
The presence of musical instruments in the cave would indicate that our ancestors had surprisingly developed an aesthetic sense long before most scholars had previously believed.
In the left case of the painting, the children look round at their uncle and are foreshortened in a way that makes them look obtuse.
The obtuse angle that connects the town to the outside world allows very few people inside.
The Succession Crisis Of 1700 was a major constitutional dispute in England, Scotland and Ireland that arose following the death of the reigning Monarch, Queen Anu.
For example in the French language, even though most of the people speak it as their mother-tongue, relatively few people use it in writing complex essays or books.
Official censorship of the press was being used by governments throughout Europe to prevent criticism of themselves.
In US law, the word "obtuse" can apply to a person who fails to understand something that is clearly stated, rather than to someone who lacks intelligence.
The general public's obtuseness on the issue concerned her greatly.
However, such a system has its drawbacks, not the least of which is that anyone who was even slightly obtuse could easily get around it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "complexities".
The speaker, usually a philosopher or politician, would propose a number of possible definitions to his audience
The idea that a small group of obtuse people can hold the rest of us hostage with their terrorist threats is unacceptable.
The line between a normal personality and a psychopath is often hard to distinguish, unless the psychopath is in the mood to kill.
The acquisition of Louisiana confused many of the European diplomats and the attitude of many clearly was that because England had obtained it possession, they should get off their pointy heads about it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "separated".
His mentor's explanation of neo-Dadaism was so obtuse that he got confused himself.
The information in this fact box is outdated and has been replaced with a more up to date version.
"Remember, this is a Philosophy unit, so think in terms of ‘thesis, antithesis and synthesis' when I give you the adjectives."
Nevertheless, for one who was not particularly fond of reading (and usually only did so as a last resort), the private's small library consisted of surprisingly few books, most of which were on 18th-century military history and tactics.
'The Oath' was a document that declared the rights and liberties of citizens and prescribed the obligations of the king.
The concept of humanism is an example of a normative statement since it makes a value judgment about something (in this case, human life).
The sharpness of a crossbow bolt was measured by the obtuseness of its head.


#opportunistic

In the decades that followed there was also a new willingness on the part of dictators to go to war against each other when it served their personal ambitions or when they saw an unexpected opportunity, such as a border dispute between two neighbors, opening up.
The animal is looking for dead animals or other food sources that might be somewhat rotting and will feed on them regardless of whether they are carnivorous, omnivorous, or herbivorous.
The earliest modern humans to enter Europe appear to have been a hardy people who made a living from hunting and gathering, fishing, and some simple farming.
Cattle baron and arts patron John Knott was born a New Hampshire farmer's son but through his opportunistic lifestyle became a powerful senator.
Leprosy, which is caused by a bacterial infection, can also be opportunistic in nature.
It's only when an opportunity presents itself that the unethical seize it.
The Saudi opposition, which is largely based in London, is made up of a number of groups and individuals with very different ideologies and aims.
The Black Death was notorious for the transformation it brought about in the lifestyles of ordinary people.
Without the existence of the USSR, communism in eastern Europe became more opportunistic than radical.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'opportunistic'.
He relied mainly on an opportunistic alliance with other regional powers to increase his holdings and conquer his enemies.
The earliest carnivores were opportunistic feeders that probably scavenged carcasses killed by other predators or ate the leftovers from their kills.
Politically, Niccolò Machiavelli is noted for being an opportunistic advisor to his overlords, often changing alliances when he thought the cause was lost.
The peasantry was forced to become more opportunistic, moving easily from one employer to another.
Another effect of the warm climate was that it made hunting and herding easier, leading to temporary but quite significant population explosions, after which expanded populations gradually shifted the carrying capacity to a higher level again.
Due to its structure opportunistic infections on ravaged bodies were common.
While cholera is mainly contracted from drinking water, it can also be the result of infected human waste.
In an environment where opportunities are scarce, the adventurous are more likely to set up business than those who are more conservative or opportunistic.
Cholera is an example of a type of bacteria that has developed an opportunistic strategy in that it infects people with weakened immune systems.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'revisionist'.
We understand the causes of these events much better. We also are able to see that states do not have to be totalitarian in order to be 'totalitarian', that is, no longer democratic in any meaningful sense and largely removed from popular control.
She was an extremely opportunistic woman who clearly wanted what she thought would be a better life in the royal palace.
However, when groups like the Ugandans or the Hutus slaughter thousands of Tutsis in a series of opportune attacks, we don't excuse them.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'advocacy'.
For the first few decades after its formation, the EC was dominated by non-ideological opportunistic economic protectionism among its members.
The structure of the regime, with the use of terror and an
While many plants and animals are confined to a narrower environment, the coyote found its niche in preying upon the animals that had become over abundant due to the loss of their natural predators.
It is thought that the first cereals were opportunistically gathered and consumed as detached seeds by hominids.
The Spanish flu spread so quickly and killed so many people because it was an "opportunistic virus" that took advantage of a population with weakened immune systems.
The disease is spread from human to human, but also exhibits a significant degree of 'opportunistic' infection in the immunosuppressed.
Her most dangerous approach is to try and use the same trading routes that the Hansans use, however her people are much more opportunistic than they are.
In this philosophy life is seen as a struggle for existence in which success is dependent on taking advantage of every opportunity that presents itself, an idea opposite to that of Marxism.
The opportunistic nature of many of the religions in Mesopotamia meant that they were in an unending battle with each other.
The Dutch were excellent merchants and very opportunistic, always acting to take
Human beings are intelligent, but only opportunistically so.
The Black Death was in fact a collection of several diseases which opportunistic illnesses thrived on.
The first dog teams — typically a mix of Alaskan Huskies and heavier Greenland Dogs — arrived in Antarctica during the1911-1912 Antarctic summer season.
As the population of the world has increased, people have increasingly become more opportunistic in their feeding habits.
The impressionist artists of the 19th century were nothing if not opportunistic, producing works to raise funds for their impoverished friends and themselves.
Those with access to this knowledge became the nobility, which took advantage of its ability to fend off invasions of plague and other diseases, while those without fell victim to it.
Saddam's rise to power was unexpected and opportunistic, rather than the result of any deliberate planning.
In an opportunistic move, the Catholic Church decided to absorb some of the worried masses who had flocked into witchcraft in their desire to strike back at their superiors and the tyrants.
Eugenicists argued about whether poverty was evidence of degeneracy or an inevitable consequence of an increasingly complex society.
The English were very opportunistic and were always making alliances with the Indians that were in power at the time.
The ancient Egyptians were an opportunistic people who believed their gods had ordered them to create a civilization that would survive far into the future.
There are two different strains of HIV, and in each case the one that afflicted humans first gained its advantage because of some accident of nature that especially favored it.
The deaths of many Aztecs in the 1520s created a power struggle among those that remained, an opportunity the Spaniards opportunistically seized to gain control of key strongholds.
The spread of the first farming societies was also made possible by a warming climate that allowed the retreat of glaciers and therefore opened up new areas for farming.
A successful parasite is an opportunistic organism that can take advantage of a host at any opportunity.
In medical science, an opportunistic disease is one that can affect people whose immune systems are failing for other reasons.
Mussolini was also an opportunistic ally of Hitler who came to a temporary peace agreement with Britain and France.
After the war, Ken was a changed man and opportunistic in his approach to life.
The survivors took advantage of the power vacuum, deploying their armies in an opportunistic manner.
In the United States, there is a continual controversy over the issue of abortion and whether or not it should be legal.
Professor: They argue that this is an example of an opportunistic infection.
Due to the nature of the information, namely software and design documents that could be used for fraud, theft and terrorism, strict confidentiality was assured to those who were involved in the project.
Those with the most power in the new republic formed a "government run by merchants and bankers"; this mentality gave rise to an opportunistic foreign policy.
Many of these microorganisms are opportunistic. This simply means that they live according to their normal life cycle most of the time but if a host becomes impaired in some way, then they can suddenly flourish.
The period between the end of the Byzantine era and the beginning of the Ottoman Empire in Asia Minor, Syria and Egypt is a period of great uncertainty.
The fact that he worked in all the major European countries made him an extremely opportunistic man.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'opportunistic'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reform".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "dyed".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modern".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "enactment".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "statistics".
Unsatisfied with the answers, you turn to a gray-haired man reading a newspaper in the corner. He's wearing green tweed jacket over a checked shirt and speaks with an educated British accent.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "hypothesis".
As you sit down, you hear laughing behind you.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "rights".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "rights".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "republic".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "orientation".
After the game is over, you go search for the Professor who is talking to a woman. He seems very excited, and you overhear him saying something about how he had placed a webpage of his own.
After the lightning round is over, you take a seat in the library and are about to pull out your phone when you realize there is no one for you to contact.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reputation".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reputation".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "dominant".
You ask the professor for a sentence that contains the word "consensus".
This sentence is about
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "struggle".
You ask the professor for a sentence that is related to "sovereignty".
You ask the professor for a sentence that begins with the letter G.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "elaboration".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "quarrel".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "scholar".


#outline

They then give you a list that contains the words: 'human', 'new world', 'discoveries', 'settlers', 'western hemisphere', 'invention', 'literature', and 'religious reformation'.
The last section outlines the main causes of increasing wage inequality, namely skill-biased technological change and globalisation.
The outline of the theory of evolution is that species develop over time through natural selection.
The newspaper reports give an outline of the story.
But in the Year of the Three Princesses, an army came to her city and she was forced to uproot herself and enter a life of travel and adventure, an existence that would be without an end...
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'realization'.
The book outlines the history of politics in America from the perspective of a conservative.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "contradictory".
There have been some attempts at outlining the origins of Native American civilization.
No original proof of the existence of an ancient universal language has yet been found.
Before 1960, most archaeologists studied artifacts without a specific interest in the people who made them.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'society'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reality'.
The suggestion was made that the department outline its rules and regulations in a booklet.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "influential".
The outline and some details of the plan seem to have been leaked to the newspapers.
Gregor Mendel, an Austrian monk, published the results of his research on pea plants in 1866.
The first thing they will expect you to do is outline the main points of the lecture.
The following is an outline of a theory of what may have happened at the end of the last Ice Age.
The stage commonly known as the Age of Exploration beginning in the late 15th century and continuing into the early 17th century, this phase was defined by European's beginnings of colonial imperialism.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vary'.
Fascism is an authoritarian political ideology that has at its core an aggressive nationalism, a totalitarian attempt to mold the entire government and society in a fascist mold with no aspects of the previous government still remaining and the agenda of starting new wars of expansion
It will be necessary to outline the main reasons for the rise of the Nazis to power in Germany, as well as the events of their rule.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'wave'.
The first major land battle of the war took place near the banks of the Quarrel River.
The major causes of World War 1 include the issues embedded in the outcomes of the war of 1812, the acquisition and colonization practices of European countries in Africa and Asia, and various interdependencies of different countries that led to a buildup of alliances
When writing an essay or preparing a speech, it is useful to have an outline.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'tactics'.
Some important events of the "Outline" include:
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "immediacy".
"There is an outside force that is halting progress in its tracks,"
The class takes an outline of the main ideas behind the American Revolution, such as the establishment of a republic and the desire for independence from Great Britain.
Professor:The thing that differentiates a democratic from a non-democratic state, or a republic from a monarchy or dictatorship, is the existence of a constitution which limits the powers of the state leaders and sets out the rights of the citizens.
The purpose of this lecture is to outline the major causes of World War I.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'outlined'.
The outline of a theory is easy. The hard part is the underlying assumptions.
An outline of the plan has been prepared, and I'd be glad to run through it with you.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "unlikely".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'pertaining'.
Professor: Your outline of the first industrial revolution focuses on England and Scotland, explaining how they were the first to adopt certain manufacturing techniques.
The following is an outline of the presentation:
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "location".
A second edition of the Outline appeared in 1920.
The main points of the Japanese surrender, as outlined by U.S. Secretary of State James F.
That is the main outline of this fascinating theory.
-The Open Conspiracy, by H. G.
A. Other issues that were part of the counterculture movement included an interest in Eastern religions and alternative medicines like acupuncture and herbal remedies.
I roiled the surface of the water with one finger to draw an abstract outline of Australia.
Also, at this point you can check how much of the article you've covered by looking at the 'article outline'.
Now that you have a basic outline of the causes of World War I, you should have no trouble filling in the details.
Bismarck drew up a series of laws, or the "session laws", that would ban socialist parties and organizations, and outlaw labor strikes.
An outline of the critical period of the history of ancient Egypt is presented.
The class outlines in the folder by the blackboard are the same as those used last semester.
The plan was sent to Washington, where Johnson had an expert draw up an outline of it.
In brief, these were the basic events that took place in between the Second World War and the Vietnam War.
The new method outlined by Dr. Kandel offers a way of understanding how the brain works and lays a foundation for eventually correcting…
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'illustration'.
It gives an outline of the main events of the Second World War in Europe from German invasion of Poland on 1 September 1939 to V-E Day on 8 May 1945.
The students were required to hand in outlines of their proposed theses before they could defend their dissertations.
The outline of the United States Constitution can be divided into seven fundamental parts.
The book outlines the main ideas and events of the 1992 general election.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fall'.
The main outline of Marxist theory is that the 19th-century history of Europe consisted in the increasing political control of society by an elite of industrialists and businesspeople, who came to form a class known as the bourgeoisie.
The Fool
A major third is the musical interval found between the first and third notes of a major scale. Its role as a musical elem...
Your lecture has covered a lot of material in outline only, but I hope you have a clearer idea now of what the French Revolution was all about.
The conflict between the Church's religious authority and the monarchies' need for state power were at the heart of the English Civil War.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'outcome'.
Facism and socialism were used by the government to try to solve many of these problems.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "destruction".
Alternatively the History of England Podcast consists of:
Mr. ____, on the other hand, was a friendly man who seemed content with his work.
Professor: In 1534, the French bishop and theologian Guillaume Feugueray wrote a set of instructions that were to be read out in all churches.
The purpose of this book is to outline the events, ideas and people involved in this revolutionary period in England in 1348-1660.
The outline of the theory was already there, in the early writings of Charles Darwin.
The outline of Earth was blocked from sight, as the sun lanced the line of the horizon and started its race into the sky...
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'introduction'.
The first section of the exam is now over.
The outline of the book is as follows: in Chapter 1 I give an overview of the origins and spread of Islam, in Chapter 2 I discuss the important role of women in Islamic society, in Chapter 3 I look at the holy book of Islam
The outline of the procedure is as follows.
The introduction briefly sets out the reasons why you have written this book.
The sentence you have requested, "The baroque period is generally seen as an artistic period that emphasized dramatic dynamism, deep emotion, and artistic elegance" is a good example of a 'broad', 'general' outline.
At this point, you cannot think of anything else to ask Professor Z. He looks at you and says goodbye.
The outline of the plan was simple.
The first step in the legal process is an arrest, or an "outline", as it is commonly known.
The Romans tended to fill a political vacuum with their own citizens
"Outline of South African History"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "scenario".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'providing'.
The Impressionist's style was an outline of what they saw in real life.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "immediately".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'exemplified'.
The basic outline of the theory goes like this
The outline of the charge against Dreyfus listed several documents he had supposedly smuggled to the Germans, including
The purpose of this outline is to highlight the major events of the era known as 'modern history', and the two centuries that preceded it.
Many historians agree that the most substantial achievement of the Nazis during its twelve-year existence was the creation of a welfare state for Germans.
The first section of the speech sets out the main points that will be covered and gives an overview of what will follow.
This chapter has outlined some of the ways in which genomics is playing a role in our understanding of human evolution.
The main points of the plan were an Economic and Monetary Union, which would lead to a common currency, and military and defense pact.
The Magna Carta outlined basic rights with the presumption of innocence under exploration.
The sketchy outline of the picture that emerges is that, in California at least, it was the non-family groups which were competing most aggressively with one another while the family units kept more or less to themselves.
After the fall of the monarchy in 1649, an outline of a new...
1. The Parthenon was funded by a wealthy merchant, even though the Greeks were primarily an agrarian society.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'attitude'.


#notice

When you notice someone's appearance or behavior, you perceive them and give your
Einstein received his education in a German school where he struggled with languages but excelled at math and science, the latter of which would have the most implication for his future career.
Over the years schools had become increasingly obligatory: if an individual did not finish their education by a certain age, they would get a visit from the police and be taken to a special school to finish learning.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'on'.
The patient mentioned in the letter seemed to realize that the key to understanding his condition was to pay attention to his dreams, and especially their bizarre and nightmarish qualities.
No one could fail to notice the alarming growth in the power of the radical middle class.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Lepidoptera'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'outlawed'.
When the revolutionaries finally revolted against the Dutch Republic, they first had to take a strict mental inventory of their means and resources.
Did you notice the way she looked at you?
"Have you noticed any physical changes in your body?" asked the psychiatrist.
The easiest way to find a correct sentence is to notice which of the meanings of the words makes the most sense in the context of the sentence.
Wherever you went, you would always be told how much nicer the weather was on your native island compared to the climate of where you now found yourself.
I can't imagine what the emergency would be, but if you ever need to leave class for any reason, just raise your hand and let me know, OK?
The notice was brought by a captain of the dreadleague, the infamous goblin mercenaries who fought for the Saronians.
The phrasal verb "to notice" means to realize or become aware of a fact or situation.
Regan notices that there is a big difference between British and American English which would make his job much easier if he could find some willing Americans.
It is more likely that the victors wrote most of the history that we now consider to be fact and that the interpretations based on these facts, however distantly, are coloured by the implication of these victors.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'corruption'.
The company has borrowed $100,000,000 to be repaid over twenty years with 8% interest, notice of which appears on page 28 of the pamphlet.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'announced'.
He wondered whether we still received letters at the university's post office boxes; I told him that I had received another notice from the tax collector.
Noah noticed that his guinea pig, Chris Crawl, seemed to viciously bite his hand.
Dr. Emmett Brown ... noticed a strange sight in the distance.
Friedrich Hayek was sent a personal letter from John Von Neumann on February 16, 1947 in which he indicates that the government is going to take steps against anyone who tries to 'obstruct military aim' John Von Neumann refers to
"The girl didn't notice him at first because she was busy reading a book."
The first thing you notice is the red metal door in front of you.
During yesterday's lesson, you raised your hand and the instructor called on you.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "unification".
Professor: In 1871 Prussia, an authoritarian state run by King William I created the first modern unified state in Germany.
The notice in the newspaper seems unusual; the writing is cramped and the letters are clipped, as if the writer could only fit a certain number of them on the line.
You: No
The professor does not give any more sentences. You wait for further instructions.
The studies mentioned will have to be re-done; I'll just give you the results in private, but I really hope this doesn't get around too much.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cause'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
Indeed, I notice you are using a notebook.
"They all seemed absorbed in their own concerns and gave him no
The fact that most people only seem to notice the bad things, like crime and pollution, is what makes those the main topics of conversation.
The government did not respond to this announcement, seemingly not even noticing it.
This semantic field requires no additional input.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideologies'.
You notice the time, and put down the book.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'interpretation'.
Your plan to make a meal of the explorers has iced their enthusiasm for climbing the mountain, but a few have decided to go ahead and try anyway.
You notice the professor has finished writing.
Neither Miss Flynn nor your other teachers ever failed to notice your frequent absence from class.
The notice was from the dean saying that your scholarship had been withdrawn and that you must vacate the university accommodation by the end of the month.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'efficacy'.
The genotoxic effects of cigarette smoke are well known, but what about the non-genotoxic?
A member of the kenkus noticed that Elana Rius was approaching the nest.
Did you notice the implication of that answer?
Miss Peters noticed one day that after she had been swimming, her fingertips looked a little bluish.
He didn't notice at first that the window had been left open.
The notice board schedules a lecture on how to land a plane
In the past few years, the medical profession has become considerably more regulated, doctors' salaries have increased, and there has been a general increase in medical health.
Little of the original house remains, but you do notice several granite blocks that were part of the foundation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'advertising'.
The new idea of branding was soon picked up on by enterprising car dealers and advertising agents, want to lure customers into their showrooms.
These were invisible gases, denser than air, that ascended from the earth in the aftermath of a volcanic eruption; scientists in these remote regions hadn't even "noticed" the odd bubbles they emitted when agitated.
Mr. Dolan noticed that a corridor was beginning to glow red, which meant it was about to collapse.
Your glasses have no notice of your extreme myopia until falling off a table crushes them under their weight.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "implication".
Professor: You're from the city, so maybe you weren't aware that there was a large oil spill on the coast near here last week.
Hence the government didn't notice the abuse going on at the day care center.
"You'll notice that some of the words we've selected are really vague, like 'notice,'"
"Have you noticed that the pain in your knee has lessened since beginning this regime, and that you're...Oh, hello, Tom, didn't see you there! Hello!"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'subsequent'.
"Please notice that I'm speaking particularly of black people, Mexican people, American Indians, and so on, and not the Japanese or Chinese, let alone the French." – Stephen Jay Gould.
Q: What do I notice first about the hand? (page 658)
Thousands of homosexuals were persecuted during the war and sent to prison camps, where many died from cruel treatment and disease.
A: Most of these are unisex and can be worn by either gender, although those with a red cross aren't.
You look at your watch and notice that it's five o'clock.
The most obvious thing one will notice when looking at human and chimpanzee DNA side by side is that 3.5 percent looks different.
The second thing you notice is that, although the tree is gnarled, it has a strangely regular shape, as if it had been deliberately pruned to look this way.
The notice was brought to us by a messenger.
Friedrich Engels, a German industrialist who read Lewis Henry Morgan's "Ancient Society", brought the American's ideas to the attention of Karl Marx.
But, only a third of the pictures were of random objects; the rest included photos of celebrities.
The new community notice board is up and running
"We were attacked by pirates on our return journey," she told him.
Your group quickly notices that the front section of the train is almost completely full,and you realize that you'll have to sit separately.
The notice seemed official and there was no reason to suspect that the man was lying.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reclaim'.
"He did not notice me."
Professor: The most noticeable thing about the American Revolution is that it led to the independence of British colonies in America and laid the foundation of a new nation, the United States of America.
It wasn't until the late 19th century that child labor was finally regulated in Europe and North America, which suggests that many people were by then starting to notice the effects of child labor on society.
Carlos wasted no time in letting me know his theory on our impending doom and I did the same by mentioning to him the possible implications of the message aliens may have sent already.
Notice: Undefined variable: unpackaged in sentence.
The workers of the toy factory first began to notice something was wrong on Monday, when Fred did not arrive at work.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'effectively'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apathy'.
They have no idea what would happen if one of the major powers, such as the US or Russia, noticed the project.
Little Billy's parents never noticed that their son was taking along his teddy bear, Mr. Smith, when he went to school everyday.
A few people in the gathering crowd noticed the lovely young woman on the coroner's table.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "naturally".
The purpose of a telescope is to make distant objects appear nearer and bigger so they may be studied in greater detail.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "commentary".
His theory is interesting, but difficult to prove since records for the medieval period are often inaccurate or non-existent.
"The population is gradually becoming more urban... The implication is that the population will become more attached to their place of birth, and that nationhood and nationalism will increase."
The student didn't miss a class without a valid excuse, so the professor took that as meaning the student had accepted the excuse as valid.
Everyone in the class seemed to notice how tired you seemed that morning.
Nathaniel Hawthorne (born 1804) wrote "The Custom-House"
"You've been in the literature club for a while, you should know how this works by now," she says while handing you a sheet of paper of her own."
As soon as you go through the door, you immediately notice that it has shut behind you, and locked
My fellow citizens of the twenty-first century,
The election gave General Frank a huge majority, and the announcement of the results was followed by weeks of protest, demonstrations, riots, and acts of violence, all over the country.
However, if you give the computer several instances of a word that are slightly different, and tell it which instance is the correct one, it can in some cases figure out patterns that will enable it to identify similar words in new sentences with no human


#panacea

Impressed by the discovery of vaccination, he got the idea that all diseases might have a common cause, and found what he thought was a panacea.
Professor: Indeed, when penicillin was reported as a panacea in 1945, the journalist Rahm wrote "of course we have no way of knowing whether a true golden age is coming or not, but it sure looks bright".
It is not investment that is lacking, but demand.
But the existence of a panacea that could cure all diseases is a myth—even though many people throughout the years have spent a lot of time searching for one.
Panaceas to whatever ails you exist in drug advertisements, but they're just the stuff of dreams for most of us.
The steam engine was believed to be the panacea that would improve human life, but it soon became apparent that only the lives of factory workers had significantly improved.
The 1960s were thought to be a panacea for all human conflict, with the advent of nuclear annihilation seeming to make all other problems insignificant.
The Black Death was believed to be a panacea, because it rid society of the unwanted and unnecessary.
The theory of the ruling class panacea is that all social problems can be solved by improving the education system.
Furthermore, you just don't get the sense that these are authors interested in presenting panaceas for hard questions.
Some people believe that the decrease in the airships' use as a panacea for all society's ills has meant that unnecessary and harmful doctors' bills are being thrust upon humanity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fantasy'.
The American entertainment industry may sometimes trivialize doctors and nurses as unfeeling providers of a panacea, but in reality they perform a demanding and vital professional service.
Land reform was not a panacea: far from producing a new resurgence in productivity, the reforms seem to have had little effect.
Professor: It was not a panacea for the social ills of the age, but it certainly improved computing for a while.
'I wish "caveat emptor" were true, but it isn't.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'garbage'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fool'.
The Nazis believed their leader to be a kind of German 'panacea' who would single- handedly reverse the country's fortunes.
"Their findings will not provide a panacea for all the world's ills, but they will give society more choices."
The internet has been hailed as a panacea for restoring the fortunes of news media companies struggling to cope with the shift from an advertising to a subscription-based funding model.
Professor: Airships are supposed to be one of the technological advances that will bring about a better tomorrow for everyone.
ShelfG85: The reduction of money to a near-useless token, which had been going on for some time, was now accelerated.
Another scholar, Nicholas Rose, says that the tests may bring "hope of a panacea" but could lead to altered or cloned humans.
Professor: The discovery of penicillin and other antibiotics during the mid 20th century is often cited as a key moment in modern medicine: for the first time, doctors were able to treat many ailments effectively with a panacea.
It soon became apparent that television was no panacea for the world's ills.
Professor: Though it was hoped that the war would be a panacea for society's ills, within a year of its outbreak it became apparent that it was causing severe social and economic problems of its own.
The New Deal was not a panacea, it did not end the Great Depression although it did help to soften some of its hardest blows
The World Bank economist believes that a forced restructuring of debt would be a panacea, curing all the debtors' ills and filling their coffers with money.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "assembly".
Another view at the time was that scientific advance would bring a panacea, or magic cure-all, to all the world's problems.
It was hoped that by creating this new society, it would become a panacea for all the world's ills.
Many theories were advanced as panaceas to solve all its problems, but a solution was not in sight.
There is no End.
Professor Oak's theory of branching evolution might, according to the newspapers, be humanity's panacea.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'functional'.
"We may need to reconsider our decision on those lights," he said.
Professor: But it was no panacea: governments tended to use perpetual public debt as an excuse to avoid political reform.
You ask the professor for a sentence beginning with the word 'furthermore'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'principality'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'independence'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'impact'.
Professor: The first factory in the US was built to make cotton cloth; it was a panacea for the farmers of the south, who could earn more in a day than they could in a month growing and picking cotton.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'alienate'.
Unemployment figures have risen rapidly and nowadays many people feel alienated from their jobs.
However, the search for a panacea continued.
Professor: At the time supporters claimed that 'free trade' represented the panacea to all the world's economic problems.
However, many doctors believe the pill has an ill effect on women's fertility and that it is no real panacea for the sicknesses that it cures.
Research into the brain has been going on for centuries and has been touted as a panacea for many of human life's problems.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'scarcity'.
The Thirteen Colonies only won the American Revolution because of a lack of unity among the British.
Tudor medicine was a branch of medieval medicine, and its practitioners were called physicians.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'magistrate'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'idiosyncrasy'.
Theory is "a figurative term for something that is hoped will solve all problems or difficulties or supply an answer to every question".
The practice of using a dead person's name to sell remedies, particularly patent medicines, developed into what is now known as ' 419 fraud'.
Professor: At one time it was thought that the spread of capitalism and government by democracy would be a panacea.
A new disease, which he called tuberculosis caused by a "" (definition) came to be known as the "white plague" as its most obvious symptom was a white discharge from the patient's nose.
Some people thought that the industrial revolution would lead to such an improvement in the status of workers that by the year 2000 everyone would be able to live a middle-class existence. This, of course, turned out not to be the case.
The 'miracle cure' medicines never live up to their promise, and even if they do work, they're almost always soon succeeded by something else that provides a better panacea.
They believed that they could find a panacea
Professor: The invention of the mass production of food is often thought to be the panacea that solved the problem of poverty for thousands.
Professor: a remedy for all ills
He said that he wished that the euro was a panacea that could solve all our economic problems, but he knew it wasn't.
Demographic Transition Model: The theory that, after passing through the three stages of a population pyramid, a nation's population eventually reaches a stage where growth is no longer possible and civilization is set to collapse.
"Better that ten guilty men go free than one innocent suffer," the lawyer said, thinking it was the moral philosopher Jeremy Bentham who had said it, but actually it was English writer Thomas Hood.
Professor: One of the stated goals of the project is finding a cure for cancer, which Kugler says "threatens our panacea."
You have now unlocked all the lessons and lectures for today.
Professor: A panacea is something that is supposed to cure all diseases and ultimately prolong life indefinitely.
Surprisingly, the surgery was still in experimental stages and not yet fully developed.
Some people expect the granting of independence to West Papua as a panacea for all its peoples' ills,
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "anything".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "fantasy".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "conclusive".
It has been seen as a panacea that will cure all the nation's ills.
The Church's doctrine of the Trinity was, for a long time, considered a panacea to all heresies and disagreements about scriptural interpretations, but eventually it too became the focus of disagreements.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'academia'.
Professor Greenstreet, as part of his training, has had extensive experience in academia.
Achilles, believing that his mother's plan could be no worse than his own, agreed to consult with the healers.
The education of women was seen as the panacea that would stop declining birthrates, a problem which many European countries started worrying about in the late 19th century.
The legend of the elixir of life, the panacea and the fountain of youth is a common motif in myths and stories.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'deploration'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "hypothesis".
Slavery focuses on three main characters: Celia, a slave; Grady, a slave owner; and Cassiopeia, a free black woman.
No one has found an answer yet, and self-styled "experts" offer contradictory advice, but all agree that it's not a panacea.
Surprisingly enough, many people of the time believed that the wide-ranging social and religious changes the Enlightenment philosophes advocated would be a panacea and solve most of society's ills.
The discovery of the New World was seen as a panacea for Spain's economic troubles.
The development of a vaccine is often seen as the panacea for any epidemic disease.
The failed revolutions mean that Iran is unlikely to become a viable democracy in the near future, meaning that it will probably not act as any sort of panacea for the Middle East.
The Swiss are also known for their belief in the panacea—the belief that an ideal system of government and society can be found.
The American Dream is the belief that through hard work and education anyone can succeed, and through this everyone will be successful and content.
The idea that global free trade is generally a positive development is taken for granted by policymakers today but this idea has not been proven true; in fact, protectionism may be better for many countries.
However, the promise of higher crop yields from genetic engineering is not a panacea for all of the world's agricultural ills.
They were also convinced that the principles of English law were a panacea that could be implemented in any society.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "kingship".
No medicine is a panacea and Viagra is no exception.
The Internet has been hailed as a panacea for information-starved students, but in fact it is no substitute for real libraries.
During the post-war boom of the 1950s, growth in the service sector was an important part of the Dutsch economy, but today the growth of hypermarkets and Internet shopping means that more and more retail businesses are facing collapse, and a
So the Church came to be seen as a panacea for all social ills.
Q. What is the title of the book the quiz is mostly drawn from?
The "panacea" of water fluoridation was the reasoning behind mass medicating American citizens without their knowledge or consent.
We should have no illusions that the Internet is a panacea for solving problems in education.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "suppression".
"At that time, Catholics were intensely suppressed in England."
In 1919, the Treaty of Versailles was signed, calling for Germany to accept full responsibility for causing the war and to pay massive reparations for the damage done.
Professor: The so-called "war on drugs" is not a panacea to cure all society's ills.
Professor: While research in this area may produce some drug that prevents cancer, it will not be a panacea.
We were hoping that our new panacea would cure not just the common cold but also the swine flu currently sweeping the nation.
Unfortunately for her, by the time she was two years old, this belief was shattered by the death of her mother.
