

#derive

The word "science" comes from the Latin word meaning "to know."
The horticulture that developed among Native Americans in the south-western region of the U.S.A is thought to have been influenced by Mexico,where agriculture had been practised for at least 5,000 years.
The word 'love' derives from the old English word 'lubban' meaning 'desire'
Most of the Mayan writing that has been deciphered talks about astronomy, calendars and mathematics, subjects that the Mayans considered a priori knowledge or what would today be called science.
Fantasy derives its usual energy from the universal human wish to escape from the world.
The artist is fascinated with paintings that explore the way the human brain perceives shapes and patterns, and how our minds attempt to find meaning where often none exists.
Baby boomers got to enjoy the benefits of the most technologically advanced society in history and tended to assume that this level of technology would perpetually continue, which may not be the case
Venezuela's foreign debt is around $30 billion, but only a small percentage is long-term debt and even that is payable at the end of this year.
The word "derivative" is derived from the Latin word "derivare", which means "to derive".
The importance of religion to many in the population made those in power reluctant to let it disappear altogether, and so a system of belief eventually was worked out that allowed religion to derive from the existence of the Empire.
The movie's ending is a little obscure, but if you pay close attention, it becomes clear that the hero derives a certain amount of sadistic pleasure in killing and that the town's people want the hero to kill the hooded figure.
The words that we use for basic things like eating, sleeping, seeing, hearing, and so on are all called "neutral" or English.
"The only way we can derive some meaning from this senseless tragedy is by ensuring that it isn't repeated.
So far in our discussion, you might say that the three main approaches to the study of history are the institutionalist, the traditional Marxist and what we might call the evolutionary or adaptive approach.
Some religions do not like to see humans deriving some kinds of benefit from certain animals.
The theory of natural selection, which is based on the concept of evolution, was first proposed by Charles Darwin in the mid-nineteenth century.
But the question remains, from where does humanity's sense of morality ultimately derive?
The duties of a constable are similar to those of a modern-day police officer.
Sophisticated instruments such as spectrometers are also used in the gold fields to derive information such as the density of rocks.
The theory of evolution, which says we're all descendants of a single, common ancestor, is the most important scientific theory humans have ever discovered.
The name of the street is believed to be derived from the large areal reservoirs once located where the street was later built.
"The word derives from Latin and it means to take something apart; to analyze, to break down into its individual parts."
His use of the term 'derive' implies that he thinks it's possible for the state to separate itself from society and therefore be free of social constraints.
The immense popularity of American music in Britain would have been much less if the Americans had not won the war of independence.
The tone and wording of the Declaration of Independence are clearly deriving from that of the United States Constitution.
The difference in average intelligence between social classes is called social class IQ gap or social inequality.
Professor: The profits made from the increased rail traffic meant that other companies could build branches to towns further away from London.
The speech, which lasted less than an hour, veered from the importance of hard work to the dangers of nuclear war.
The terms orthodoxy and heresy come from the ancient Greek and refer to a body of religious doctrine held by the majority and established by custom or general consent.
The phrase "Or from bits cast aside of Providence" in the last line suggests that these people had been "deriving" their lives from a higher power.
The purpose of the Congress of Vienna was to settle the vast number of issues arising from the downfall of Napoleon and 'devise a stable political order to oversee the peace, and to derive a balance of power that would prevent another continent-wide war
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "imply".
Professor: By the time the mass media derides a fad, it is definitely over.
Fascism was an extension of corporatism or the system in which business and government are linked.
Shakespeare's plays, for example, are considered to have derived from earlier works in the genre, such as the tales of magic and royalty in "King Lear".
The word "ecology" comes from the Greek word for house ("oikos") and roughly translates to "the study of".
When a group of terrorists attempt to blow up the oil-well, they directly derive their legitimacy from the perception of environmental damage caused by the burning of fossil fuels.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "predominantly".
Mendel's theories of pea plant genetics were not widely accepted or understood until long after his death.
Most of the world's food supply has come from the high-yielding strains of wheat, corn and rice that scientists have derived from conventional breeding.
The branches of the Federal Reserve banks were not allowed to lend to one another in emergencies unless the Board of Governors initially approved, so the Board became the lender of last resort in times of panic by deriving this authority from Congress.
They try to justify and defend the fact that they are richer by claiming their success is due to their merits, and not because of historical and social accidents, which is an argument that logically implies that the unsuccessful are therefore unsuccessful because of their own failings
Primitive societies tend to be more equal in terms of wealth. Therefore, it can be argued that such societies are more 'derive'.
We cannot derive an algorithm to solve the problem from the information given.
The new government immediately set about transforming the country by initiating a program of radical socialization.
Some historians believe that the extreme nationalism of the period was derived from a large amount of ex-soldiers without a job to return to.
Many Christians believe that the soul will derive its life force after death from another world.
In the mid-19th century, a man could not work in the fields or run a farm without having basic arithmetic skills.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modernization".
The professor hands you back your results and tells you to go check them onto the public board in the hall.
Together, the artistic and social movements that Der Blaue Reiter initiated, came to be known as Expressionism.
The word ‘ethnocentrism' is a perfect example of a word that has been derived from very general underlying principles.
The company is deriving extra profit from the popularity of its new compact cars.
The Native American music we hear today is based on traditional songs which have been handed down, changed and added to over several centuries.
Heidegger believed that we must free ourselves from the 'they' and become an authentic individual, instead of simply following the traditional roles that society has laid out for us.
Although the scientific method can be used to prove things with certainty, scientists regularly make hypotheses that cannot be proven but which make predictions that can be tested.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'scholar'.
The purpose of this exercise is to help you learn how to form questions in order to achieve your goals.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'colour'.
We are able to derive a formula from these observations.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "permitted".
Professor: The French Revolution can be defined as an attempt by the bourgeoisie to gain power from the aristocracy and to not have any more power taken away from them by the monarchy.
The series of battles ultimately exhausted both sides, leading to a quick resolution and the end of the war, which derived in the execution of the King's family.
A person who derives pleasure from watching pain and violence in media (such as movies, television and video games) is called a Sadist
It is possible that they will derive much information about morality from the resulting controversy over their work.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "laissez-faire".
Genetic drift is the independent assortment of alleles from one generation to the next, causing a variation in traits among the individuals.
The radical economists believe that the only way to restore the economy is to eliminate all forms of government regulation.
The value of the dollar derives from the fact that it is the most widely accepted currency in the world.
However, this theory has been criticised as being simplistic and fails to take into consideration factors such as the influence of culture on genetics.
The majority of the population lived in poverty and were able to derive little pleasure from their deprivation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
The town of Ulm had a great medieval cathedral that arose in part from the fact that it was on a bend in the River Danube.
At its peak, the ancient city was home to approximately 25,000 individuals.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "terrorism".
Most of the church music of that time was written by Bach, who took most of his material from a collection of Italian songs.
It would be foolish to deny that Western civilization does not derive a considerable element of its character from the ancient Greeks.
Religious songs in the African-American community are called the blues.
The word "Hello" doesn't actually mean anything; it's just a random combination of sounds derived from the names of some places.
Deriving pleasure from gambling, or from other people's misfortune is a sickness better to cure than to follow.
The name of the new virus is taken from a recently discovered Egyptian plague, the Hittite influenza, which ravaged Egypt during the reign of King Tutankhamen , hence H.I.V.
It was clear that the last drops of humanity's ancient history were being squeezed out with more and more of these early human ancestors being discovered, until a time relatively recently in our past when we "derive."
This means that GINA's recommendations must first consider the financial implications for each partner organization.
Other people, deriving their information from the same source, have arrived at the same conclusion.
You ask the professor to explain 'algorithm'.
Professor: Some people's tasks involved directly observing the patients, such as the psychiatrists who derived a patient's psychopathology through talk therapy sessions and the nurses who kept daily medical records.
One of the problems with such sites is that they are usually popular places to find fossils, so their environment is particularly fragile and any digging can adversely affect the local geology.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hereditary'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "coherent".
The English word for marriage derives from the Anglo-Saxon term ‘matrimony', meaning 'the state of being a father'
The members of the trade union strongly believe that the government should raise the minimum wage, as this would help a lot of people who are only just about managing to derive a living.
The Age of Enlightenment saw the birth of classical liberalism and ideas such as the concept that it is the duty of the state to provide social services such as education, health care, and social security to all its citizens.
We can only hope that a way will be found to resolve the serious problems caused by the spread of these weapons before it is too late to derive a way out of the resulting chaos.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'guarantee'.
You ask the professor for a sentence using 'mechanism'.
It is true that the fascists appropriated many of the theories of socialism without their compassion and the socialists incorporated some ideas of free markets and private ownership without the capitalistic incentive.
The idea that all animals and living organisms exist to contribute to the well-being of the whole ("the universal organism", as Teed called it) is a core concept in holistic medicine.
Rabbi Joachim was an 11th-century sage who offered a radically new interpretation of the Bible, and predicted an age of universal peace.
The word ‘biology' comes from the same root as the word life, which derives from Greek.
The commonest reason for extinction is that the population size gets below a certain level, called the 'minimum viable population'.
The American slang word 'crap', used to refer to something of very poor quality, derives from "excrement".
Energizer is a world-leading manufacturer of batteries and portable power products that represent sales of an impressive $4.6 billion in 2006.


#deter

But a careful reading of the passage would have led one to the same conclusion, especially if one knew that it was an airline magazine.
Sending a death squad to Daniel's home would only have strengthened his position: it would have been an act of tyranny against a man who was first and foremost a peace-lover, not a warmonger.
Detergent is a cleaning chemical that washes away dirt from clothing and other fabrics.
The threat of execution, or in later years exile, was the most widely used instrument of persuasion.
The fear of earthquakes is calledseismophobia.
However, in recent years, the detergent industry has made great strides in producing an alternative to these substances that also gets stains out effectively.
Quitting smoking would have a positive effect on your health and would deter you from starting again in the future.
The students' reading of the material was greatly deterred by the difficulty of the scientific terms they encountered.
The death penalty has certainly been found to have no deterrent effect on the crime rate.
"I may have been wrong to think of this as a war," the Emperor said.
The laws were designed to deter drug pushers, not discourage innocent citizens from withstanding drugs.
The senator claimed that the new law would have a deterrent effect on crime.
Before the battle of Hastings in 1066, most English lords had pledged their allegiance to William as England's future king.
The soldiers became discouraged by the constant harrying of their lines by Indian skirmishers.
For the first time since 1918, it seemed that war might not be able to prevent the spread of Communism into Western Europe.
Those who were lazy or indolent or drunkards were frowned upon and eventually penalized, though not, of course, to the extent that they are in our own society, where if you fail to make proper use of your opportunities you can
The air raids did little more than deter the gov from attempting an even longer occupation, and by the end of the war, German cities lay in ruins.
Unfortunately there is no punishment severe enough to deter some individuals from committing crimes
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reliability'.
The President has repeatedly said that his plan to deter Iraqi aggression in the region is working.
But, we know that those who have a tendency to develop the disease can avoid doing so if they lead a healthy lifestyle and thus help their haemoglobin production.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "inevitably".
If you have speeding tickets on your record, the insurance company might well deter you from serious speeding when driving.
He'd had a big insurance policy, so the death was hushed up and categorized as an accident to prevent the airline industry from going through another round of enormous insurance costs.
The damage caused by the continued burning of fossil fuels is a self-imposed threat that is not necessary, and so there are simple measures that we could take to severely limit their impact on our environment and our health.
None of the above
But it did have some effect and deterred smaller attacks by individual mutants afraid of getting severely hurt or killed by the Yautja.
Deteriorating economic conditions in the Weimar Republic in the 1920s helped pave the way for the success of the Nazis.
Professor: The decision as to whether or not to accept refugees from troubled areas such as Darfur, which South Africa has agreed to do, raises questions about the country's ability to accommodate large numbers of people from different cultures, and what this
The best way to deter an attack may be a form of "nuclear deterrence"—that is, by maintaining a nuclear arsenal of one's own.
However, some studies deterred them from this choice.
The bombing raids of the Second World War effectively deterred Japan from entering the war until mid-1944.
However, the argument that we should withdraw from Iraq primarily because it is too costly and difficult ignores the fact that if we withdrew, this action will have serious implications for our moral authority.
The problem with your proposal is that it would deter foreign investment in this country responsible for half of the nation's growth, which is clearly unacceptable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "exacerbate".
The decision would be based on many factors, including the seriousness of the violation and whether you have a previous violation on your record.
Sadly, due to the amount of time elapsed the scientific evidence that might have deterred this process no longer exists.
The government's plan to deter potential criminals from ever using firearms again.
The family was motivated by the desire to deter children from using drugs.
deter: deter, deterred, having been prevented or discouraged from doing something.
It's been found that prisoners who take the initiative and work hard in these classes have a 79% lower chance of being convicted again in the future.
The policy of deterrence, which was a continuation of the Cold War strategy, has been justified on two grounds.
In his pursuit of world domination the dictator would ruthlessly and systematically eliminate everyone that might oppose him or might be a potential future threat.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Origin'.
Those ideas didn't deter the Nazis from using it to attempt to justify genocide in Europe.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conquest'.
The most successful of these polities were the ones who used their advanced weaponry to conquer and hold new territory.
There is no evidence that the use of candles led to significantly longer reading hours in 17th-century Holland; it merely had an effect on reading locations.
The honours system clearly acts as a powerful incentive to students in the form of honor grades and letters after their names.
The law was intended to deter potential burglars by making the punishment fit the crime, that is, more serious burglary would incur more serious punishments.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'dialogue'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'protagonist'.
If the police believed that you did it, that would certainly deter them from employing such tactics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "military".
These experiments would certainly deter any industrial spy from stealing the company's research.
Professor: The UN was established to prevent war and rumors of war.
The theory states that the rational workers would join a union if they knew it to be in their interest to do so, and that management could prevent them from joining up by taking advantage of their need for the paycheck and skill at routine tasks to keep
Following a series of terrorist attacks in the capital, the prime minister announced that he was going to implement new security measures which would help prevent future attacks.
But the belief that nuclear war would automatically lead to the end of human civilization has led to complacency and a lack of attention to defence spending.
It was only in the nineteenth century that governments had the resources and technology to start taking a chance on deter redering stronger sentences.
The new austerity measures will deter foreign investment in the airline industry.
The new information technologies, such as the worldwide web, have been a mixed blessing.
The only thing that might have deterred Hitler from his plunge into world domination would have been fear of the unknown, with so many countries opposing him, he didn't know for sure if he'd win.
The student was deterred by the notoriety the crime had brought him.
So what are you describing?
Professor: The other problem was the drought itself. It was bad enough that governments weren't doing much to help people, but many aid agencies were starting to run out of money and couldn't help anyone at all.
The US Constitution and the Bill of Rights act as a deterrent to the abuse of power by public officials because they create stricter rules than, for instance, the English monarchy.
It is important to point out that this does not justify the opposite behavior of punishing children by d
The anti-immigration legislation of the 1920s and 1930s was designed to deter Eastern European immigrants from settling in the United States.
The threat of execution was supposed to deter soldiers from running away from battle.
In addition, national leaders started to realize that attacking other countries would not necessarily force them to submit, but instead could lead to their country's own destruction.
"The act of deterring a criminal by putting people on the train who are obviously train staff or someone similar, is known as passive deterrence"
The ability of communist regimes in Eastern Europe to deter protests against them was severely diminished.
The assassin was motivated by money, though the threat of blackmail made him an easy mark for recruitment by the powers that be.
The fact that they worked in mines and often had to deter dangerous rock falls meant that they were usually strong and muscular.
Still, if you had been the judge, you would have sentenced him to deter others from committing such crimes.
The fear of unemployment and rationalisations deterred workers from striking.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'allegiance'.
Deter is a transitive verb, which means it needs a direct object; unintimidated is the direct object.
He'd built up a resistance to the first drug and the doctors decided that a heavy-duty painkiller called Dilaudid might work as a deterrent.
Deterrence is another term for threat.
However, the main reason behind the growth of nationalism in England was the increase in literacy, which inevitably led to the growth of newspapers.
"There is no way of detering them once they go on the rampage"
Fear of falling can deter people from mountain climbing.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'contract'.
However, to deter American boys from going to Canada, the US authorities threatened them with the possibility of being drafted when they turned twenty, if they hadn't served already.
The music had a calming effect, and he was certainly motivated to carry on.
Some of the critics claimed that it would lead to an increase in theft and sexual assaults because people wouldn't be 'deterred' by the threat of punishment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'equally'.
After researching this topic, I have come to the conclusion that, ultimately, it does not matter what causes anyone to die – whether it's their genetic fate or an external force such as the law.
Unemployment in the inner cities has risen to dangerous levels: the government must do something or there will be serious social unrest.
The threat of an invasion from the north would have deterred many Galicians from protesting and they would have instead focused on defending their homes.
Most governments at the time opted to deter possible attacks from other states, rather than attempting actively seek out treachery.
The twenty-year-old man is too young be legally punished for his crime, but the judge can deter him from committing similar crimes in the future.
However, once the divine right of kings was abolished in England, it significantly decreased the ability of monarchs to have their laws obeyed.
The Nazis also tried to 'cleanse' the population of people they regarded as 'subhumans', such as the so-called 'inferior races', and the
The purpose of deterring the enemy was to prevent them from achieving a breakthrough at any cost.
Sadly, the current legal system unduly deters women from coming forward when they're molested or attacked.
The government's policy of requiring food-handling workers to wear protective gloves, which was introduced to prevent the spread of AIDS among them, will very likely soon be changed.
The government sent police to the town to deter any potential protesters.
"In fact, they are deterred from stronger measures to the extent that they are convinced that the threat is serious and that the United States has both the willingness and ability to do something about it."
The argument was meant to deter, not persuade...
Blocked from deterring predators by their hard shell, some of the animals that branched off to become the vertebrates eventually developed an organ to pump fluid and quickly move the animal in a particular direction: they developed a nervous system.


#determine

A child psychologist is someone who studies the mental health of children in order to determine when medication might help.
However, the key basic unit, the atom, could not be determined until the work of the physicists.
Many economists agree that the price of gold is determined primarily by supply and demand.
The examination boards determine the numbe
In the end, John Smith's determination to explore and map the areas of Virginia that he had seen himself determined the colony's future, as it eventually led to a separation from the rest of the Virginia colony.
The shape of the 5,000-year old Mesopotamian plough that he had just discovered would help them to determine the age of other tools found with it.
But in any case, the only way of really determining the structure in advance is to use mathematical approaches involving Hilbert spaces.
Suffrage was limited to men who owned property and therefore small percentage of the population could determine the voting population.
What the study of insects does, however, is determine the boundaries within which any explanation must fall.
The government's decision to allow women to enter politics and determine policy was an event that changed the traditional view of Saudi society forever.
One problem that prevented Ptolemy from finding a mathematical model for the solar system was that he couldn't determine the center of the universe.
"We also wanted to determine the effect of cigarette smoke on mice"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "influential".
The original discovery that led to the dismissal of Calestous Juma as director of Harvard's Science and Global Security Programme was the result of his research into how people with high-level positions in Western governments.
We need to determine the reason for their extinction before we can assign blame.
What you have been attempting to do here is determine, by analyzing a wide range of source material, the kind of influence the Enlightenment had on the French Revolution.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "Wage".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "qualification".
The reason why people scream when they get a needle is that their nervous systems determine that screaming is an effective way to deal with painful situations.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'scenario'.
The main factors that will determine the ability of the government to pay off its debts are the tax it collects from citizens and the money it receives from the sale of goods and services.
The best way to determine which of the students will succeed is to find out which of them has the appropriate connections.
William Harvey helped determine the heart's role in pumping blood throughout the body.
The geologists' findings determined that the oil must be thousands of deep and that the search for it would be extremely costly.
The percentage of women who are able to identify the correct brand and model of car in an advertisement can be used to determine how well the company's advertising agency is doing its job.
A: We are currently working on determining the speed of their gas-giant, but for all we know their system could be on the other side of the galaxy.
"It's ‘cause they're s'posed to," he explains.
The outcome of an event is determined based on the probability of each possible outcome and the payoff to each possible outcome.
Early experiments showed that human subjects could be induced to fire a rifle at a complete stranger simply by providing them with instruction and words of encouragement mixed with what they claimed was a 'magic' fluid.
The scientific jury is still out on how exactly the human brain determines our thoughts.
The events of the English Civil War resulted in a decline in religious influence on government, leading to greater freedom and the ability to determine one's own destiny.
But first, you must determine if it is safe to go in.
The tests will help the professor determine the cause of your illness.
The Nazis also had to determine who among the mentally ill were able to work.
This new information will allow historians to determine more accurately the rate at which indentured servitude grew in the Caribbean region.
The school tries to determine which students can go on which paths by their skill in each subject.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'productive'.
However, the word ‘cult' is difficult to define because there are different types of religious groups or sects within Christianity. It is difficult to determine whether a particular religious group is a cult or not.
The most difficult part of their job is determining the age and thus the value of a vase or statue.
The difficulties of the interpretation process often result in the investigator being unable to determine whether the writing is by the murderer or a victim.
The positive outcome of the revolution which led to so called representative democracy has forever determined the course of the nation's future development.
The War of the Roses, which took place between the houses of York and Lancaster from 1455 to 1485, determined the succession of England's throne.
However, in the 19th century, the tide began to turn and doctors determined that physicians shouldn't just treat the body, but also the mind.
But while the Marxist theory helps to explain many events in postwar France, there are still gaps that other theories can help to determine.
In chemistry, determining the structure of a molecule allows chemists to determine how the substance reacts with other substances.
Due to its unique position as a republic that lasted for more than two thousand years, ancient Rome's influence and importance continues to this day.
The reasons for the vast expansion of the Roman empire, in comparison to its contemporaries, can best be determined through a historical assessment of each.
Another important factor which determined the break up of the colony was the background and education of the future leaders.
In other words, the threat of the environment is not a question of its ability to change but of its ability to "determine" our lives.
The museum's ongoing impact on society stems from the fact that it was one of the first instances of a national institution being developed primarily to educate rather than just for entertainment.
The extent to which German industry was supporting the Nazi Party was one of the factors that determined the estimates of the British intelligence services of how soon Germany would invade Britain.
But now new research is being undertaken which is designed to determine the exact age of these paintings.
He could not determine the ophthalmologist's diagnosis without further information.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "distort".
However, the main purpose of the fighting in the Eastern Front was to maintain the Soviet Union in a state of war and determine if it would be destroyed by attrition, a fact that determined World War II's status as a "war of attrition".
The biggest problem facing scientists today is to determine how the brain gives rise to consciousness
The town has not yet determined whether it will be part of the new centre or not.
Our law system, and hence our governments, must determine how we can judge a person's guilt or innocence according to what they did, not what we think they might do in the future.
How the brain determines the location of an object has been a central focus of visual neuroscience for many years.
Calculating a vehicle's energy consumption is one of the factors that engineers use to determine whether an engine will meet a vehicle emission standard.
Democracy is a form of government, and an industrial society is an economic system.
It was difficult at that time to determine whether the effects of childhood stress on chemical levels in adult's brains were coincidental or causal.
Even though the results of the study may determine that the relationship between smoking and lung cancer is not causal, more research needs to be done.
The debates between the anarchists and the Marxists about whether a violent or non-violent approach to toppling the government would be more effective determine largely whether a society will approve of such actions.
Well, the discovery of new and useful drugs could obviously determine the financial success of the company.
They are attempting to use statistical methods to predict future climate change, in order to determine how it will affect life on Earth.
The incidence of Middle Paleolithic tools in Europe is used to determine whether a particular class of fossil hominid or archaeological site is of the earliest or earliest evidence of humans in Europe.
Although people probably lived there for much longer, permanent settlements in the region were not established until we determine when.
The idea we have more than five senses was proposed by an English philosopher Thomas Hobbes in the 17th century and determined largely by our ability to interpret sensations received from our sense organs.
It is not surprising that Mayas living in scattered villages decided to join the Spanish and determine their own conquerors.
It is difficult to determine what the real issues at stake were, as all of the political pamphlets from the period have been destroyed.
The company's profitability during the early 1960s determined that expansion would be the name of the game ...
However, one challenge to this belief is that it is difficult to determine the quality of life in a society simply by looking at its tools.
In fact, after the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1932, the economy began to pick up, and most economists now credit the government spending policies of the New Deal with getting the United States out of the Great Depression.
It is not always easy to determine which method of fact finding will be most appropriate to a certain problem.
It is important to determine the nature of sentences and their organization before attempting to draw conclusions about the order they are used in.
The position of Governor in the British Empire was never a powerful one, and set no real precedent for more important political positions because its holder could never really determine the importance of his office.
The government set out to determine how much damage the new mine would do to the environment.
In biology, genetics is the study of heredity and genes, as well as the science of DNA.
The development of the atom bomb determined that the next war would be completely different from any previous one.
The 13th century monks who first created the documents that ultimately determined the canon of English literature several hundred years later could not have known how radically different the world would be by the time their work was actually read by others.
By studying both the fossilized bones and the rock strata containing them, geologists are able to determine the age of the fossils.
The building's original design determined the basic form of the city: a square, with each side about two miles in length.
The French and Indian War determined that the British would dominate American affairs.
In reality, a lot of the variation in the human genome seems to be the result of slight random changes in genes that are then determine, or fixed by, the environment.
Predicting the weather is especially difficult to do more than a few days in advance, because so many factors interact to determine the weather.
The exact nature of the relationship between the two men and how much they were able to determine the government's actions is still subject to historical debate.
Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, which physicists use to this day to determine the position and velocity of subatomic particles, was based on a speech he gave in Paris in September 1927.
It is clear that the central banks of the world are going to have to work together to determine the best way to regulate banking in the twenty-first century.
It was not until the twentieth century that technology had sufficiently advanced to enable television signals to be broadcasted with enough strength and in a small enough space to determine their range.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'iron'.
Professor: It was based on English examples and on English experience, but it didn't work here, as the American colonists were determined to prove.
The increase in crime during the Civil Rights Movement determined some African-Americans to form groups for self-defense.
It was determined the cause of death to be poisoning.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "Parliamentary".
Surprisingly, the fate of the ancient city of Nineveh can tell us something about how we may determine the events of 612 BC.
The American colonists needed to determine whether it was in their best interest, both economically and politically, to remain in the British Empire or declare their independence.
There are several things you need to determine before your trip.
Over recent years, it has become possible to determine the age of bird species on the basis of their magnetic RNA.
Some authorities have said that a study of twins can help determine the role that heredity and environment play in mental illness.
The results of experiments in the 1990s were eventually able to determine the origins of ADHD and how it affects people's lives.
It is necessary to determine the nature of the property rights that are to be created under this scenario.


#devise

It has long been a matter of pride among Americans that their nation was founded on the lofty idea that all men are created equal and so may be judged primarily upon their individual merits rather than their birth.
The purpose of the secret ballot was to devise a way of preventing bribery and intimidation, which often resulted in people buying votes from poor citizens.
The test is supposed to screen for a specific mutation in the APO-E gene, which is involved in lipoprotein activity and thought to be implicated in late-onset Alzheimer's.
One of the earliest methods for devising a method for indicating longitude was providing a clock on the ship, and later through the use of occasional astronomical observations.
The Huguenots had to devise a system of secret shutters and doors in their houses to protect themselves.
One of the methods that might be used to limit the amount of smoke that an internal combustion engine emits is by making the fuel nozzle a small pinhole, that way the fuel would drop slowly and would not produce very much heat.
The final challenge, the one you fear the most, is called 'devise'. This is all about inventiveness.
William Harvey, the man who devised the circulation of blood in the human body, originally intended to become a physician.
The constitution that he wrote in 1787 established a federal republic and devised a method for electing a president, while greatly restricting the powers of the chief magistrate.
The king will no longer be able to devise a law that commands the citizens of our republic what to believe, how to behave and what to do.
The numerous theoretical and practical difficulties of the anti-slavery movement were not addressed and worked out in public by the politicians of the day, but rather within Parliament itself, through long, tedious, and acrimonious debates over the interpretation
To counter his enemy's water weapon, he might devise some way of shielding against the same and attack the source.
In the last decade, great strides have been made in devising new tests to ensure that drugs are safe.
I hope the Great Council will be able to devise a plan that puts an end to these disagreements once and for all.
The goal of the game is to devise a method of communicating ideas and thoughts from one person to...
The whole purpose of the war and the devices was to frighten the enemy into submission without causing death.
He did not devise any elaborate plans for a great "empire" or huge monuments.
For these reasons, the best solution is for you to devise a way of helping your sister and her family without their knowledge.
The composer has been engaged to devise an original piece of music for the ceremony.
One of the major factors in the effectiveness of a security system is how well it has been devised, and what efforts have been taken to make sure that it cannot be broken.
Nevertheless, he did devise an ingenious way of ensuring that his theories are never disproved: all he has to do to make them correct is make up some new rules for his model to fit the latest discovery.
The board that devised the IQ test claimed the results placed the Bradley boy at the bottom of America's mentally retarded population.
We have tried to devise a system that differentiates between the important and less important events.
The dictatorship was eventually replaced by a democracy, which had to devise new methods of dealing with crime.
He was meticulous in the plans for armored tanks that he devised to break through the German defenses.
One theory that has been devised in the decades since the Watergate scandal is that the president is theoretically always responsible for anything his staff does.
The Civil War is often regarded as the moment when the proposed reforms of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's "New Deal"
The modern theory of evolution was devised primarily by Charles Darwin.
He had relied on his experience, as opposed to theory, so he was in the position of having to devise an entirely new system of corrections.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'stereotype'.
In the eighteenth century, the common people didn't always understand what the politicians were devising.
The German Euthanasia Programme, authorised by Hitler in October 1939 and labelled 'mercy killing', was designed to eliminate people whom the Nazis believed to be mentally ill, deformed or intellectually disabled.
However, he also had to devise a social structure that would prevent the weak from being eliminated.
From the beginning, intelligent men have often devised strong systems of defense for their cities.
The ecclesiastical reformers used their knowledge of Latin to devise a new language for discussing Christian doctrine.
The much-derided statistician who had devised the index was later tasked with developing another.
My proposal is that we devise and implement a strategy to persuade people to use their cars less frequently.
Mathematicians devised more and more complex ways of devising algorithms to break the Enigma code.
Although he's been criticized for devising a theory that is difficult to prove, Professor Spires has a reputation as a careful scholar.
It also allows us to devise experiments to test these hypotheses.
Will, who had been given the daily task of devising a new way of torturing pregnant women.
Revolutionaries are attempting to devise a way of counteracting the effects of the drug.
The Americans, in a rare display of ingenuity for them, managed to devise a way to bypass the British controlled oceans.
No machine could devise a more perfect instrument of rule than the religion Niccolò Machiavelli wrote about in the 16th century.
The US army used electronic key cards to lock and unlock doors in their buildings during the Cold War period. This system was devised as a security precaution in response to a number of spies being detected within the army.
The test was devised in 1979 by some American doctors.
The only way to stop the epidemic was to devise a vaccine, which eventually proved to be successful.
The main authority for a king to rule was the divine right of kings. This is the idea that kings rule by the grace of god and therefore should not have their decisions questioned.
Although he was by nature very introverted and shy, he soon developed the ability to devise workable strategies and plans for everything from winning school contests to running the country.
The purpose of a business is to benefit the people who run it, and its devise to create profit for its shareholders.
Treaties were not enough to stop war from breaking out, and so other means had to be devised on how to control international disputes.
Fortunately for him, the scheme to flood modern Israel with false Jewish relics backfired; the Israelis were so outraged by his efforts to discredit their history that they dismissed him as a crank and largely ignored his work.
Some states' powers to tax business were largely curtailed so that they were forced to devise new methods of financing public goods such as schools and roads.
Theories that try to explain everything usually lack the plausibility structure necessary for true usefulness; It is no surprise that the most successful theories are often the simplest ones with the fewest assumptions or 'devises'.
The modern definitions of "race", "ethnicity" and "culture" were all developed in the nineteenth century by naturalists who were trying to devise a system that would give them homogeneous units for scientific study (Boyd 1997, p.
However, faced with the German invasion, he is likely to try to devise a plan that would prevent the spread of war into Yugoslavia.
When you are older, you may need to devise new ways of earning a living.
Otto von Bismarck's mission was to "devise" a plan that would enable his country to gain "confines" at the expense of France.
The new law was designed to invalidate the claim that a married couple could devise their property to whoever they wanted and when they died their estate would not be subject to the claims of the monarchy.
Professor: In this case, the only way to prevent the wedding from taking place is to devise a plan to prevent it from happening.
In this period, the south was the most developed area of Egypt.
Another valuable use was that the states could now raise money through taxes to devise new programs.
The Oglala of South Dakota had a particular way of adopting captives into the tribe.
Novelists and dramatists of the Victorian age often had to resort to desperate measures in order to raise money to support themselves.
It is not clear who actually devised the plan. What is clear is that it was eventually adopted by the king.
However, the Luddites failed to recognize that the introduction of machines was going to increase the demand for skilled labor and wages would eventually rise to match the inflation caused by mass production.
However, others have refuted this theory by devising examples of animals that have undergone complete metamorphoses.
The scientists then had to devise methods of preventing the two self-replicating machines from getting out of control.
Nevertheless, most theologians were reluctant to accept these findings since they seemed to devise new ways of disproving the existence of God.
The court will not devise a general rule to apply to a myriad of possible fact situations;
To help the farmers, Henry devised a system of laws that would ensure fair prices and fair wages for all.
The advantage is to businesses that can then devise contracts and conditions that suit them.
The earliest Roman roads were most likely tools the government devised to help them control their vast empire.
Sir Walter Raleigh was a key figure in the accession of King James I to the English throne and was instrumental in devising a plan to allow him to do so.
Later, he devised a new system of communication for the deaf.
Even the right to vote for representatives to the British Parliament was extended only to taxpayers, so that a mere handful of elite men could not devise laws that would affect all people.
The information was collected by teachers and education officials, who devised the most efficient and effective means of training the nation's youth.
The ancient civilization must have developed their invention over a long period of time.
The main problem with his argument is that it fails to sufficiently or credibly explain the social and psychological processes by which the change in the metric system was devised and implemented.
Professor: The intention of the forum is to devise a teachable theory that accounts for all the conflicting information currently available.
I'm not trying to devise a way of beating the system, but a way of working within it.
Mr Miller's plan was to develop a method to collect this fertilizer which would then be sold and the profits used to pay for the extra schooling that his children would hopefully attend.
The pattern of inheritance of traits in a human family is determined by the behavior of chromosomes during the production and division of reproductive cells or 'meiosis'
The statesman Benjamin Franklin, who was the main American author of the "Declaration of Independence" and is known as "The First American",devised the "Great Seal of the United States".
Seventeenth-century English philosopher and lawyer Sir Francis Bacon wrote a book called "The Advancement of Learning" that discussed the fact that inventions and discoveries had increased significantly in recent centuries.
He later went on to devise the first programmable computer.
The aim of the plan was to devise a way so that the oil would refuse to enter the Texan economy.
They did not even have the capacity to devise a system for the proper management of waste in their communities.
Professor:The main reason for the test's failure was that the authorities spent too much time arguing over the det
The use of animal parts to cure illness only began to fall out of fashion when modern scientific methods were gradually devised to prevent and treat diseases.
The issue of multiracialism was not really on the politicians' agenda until early in this century when a series of legal decisions and changes in social attitude made interracial marriage legal and increasingly common.
The one contemporary writer who does seem to have understood the implications of this work was David Hume.
It's difficult to devise a test that will truly separate the smart from the stupid.
The kings, the nobles and the landowners had personally to approve the device of the subjects, which meant that someone with only a small amount of property could prevent a person who owned far more from doing what they wanted with their land..
He had to devise an entirely new system of education, since the way he taught his older students wasn't appropriate for younger ones.
The oldest known law is preserved on a stone pillar that was discovered in the middle of Mesopotamia. It dates back to around 3,800 B.C. And it is a law for debtors.
However, it is a method that can be used to solve philosophical problems, which he devises in his paper A memoir about metaphysics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'extreme'.
The deadly extremes of hot and cold experienced by the explorers were unlike anything they had ever seen.
They will also be tasked with devising suitable tests to see if you have been successfully immunized against their diseases.
Since these testing methods were so new, it was difficult to devise tests that could measure whether or not a person had synthetic parts.


#dichotomy

Like other medical fields, psychiatry was a dichotomy.
In the mid-18th century, there was a dichotomy between high art and low art.
Biology involves a very wide range of different scientific sub-fields, which are themselves subdivided into smaller specialities and so on. Within biology there is a division between the study of "lower"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'illusion'.
The word ‘dichotomy' comes from a Greek word meaning ‘two cuts. To add to the confusion, there are three main types of dichotomies: the first divides a category into two parts, e.g.
In any event, the idea that the world's conflicts are caused by old ethnic hatreds is a simplistic dichotomy on which Balkan experts tend to frown.
The apparent clash between religion and science is actually only a dichotomy when both fields claim absolutes, whether in heaven or in nature.
One of the major dichotomies between humans and animals is that human cells are alive while animal cells are not.
The contrast between urban and rural life in the United States is a clear example of a social dichotomy.
A dichotomy is a division or relationship involving two different aspects or parts.
The dichotomy of the legal and illegal has resulted in modern wars.
In most societies there is a dichotomy between the human desire for wealth and success and the equally universal desire to live a virtuous and spiritually fulfilling life.
The dichotomy between the battle for independence as a class and a battle for independence as a nation resulted in two very different national identities.
One of the first steps in creating the Cold War dichotomy was deciding who would be our ally and who would be our enemy.
There is a dichotomy in our views of the burqa: while many Europeans consider it an oppressive, archaic garment that symbolizes the subservience of Islamic women, others consider banning it to be an affront to Muslim identity and culture.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'abstract'.
The ancient Greeks faced a dichotomy: to be free individuals, they had to submit to a tyrant.
The naturalist sees a world of division and conflict, with everything classifiable into oppositional pairs called dichotomies.
Dichotomy: an organization set up specifically to help refugees.
Furthermore, Farr noted that the distinction between the concepts of husband and father was a false dichotomy.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "manipulate".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "initiate".
There are two main dichotomies in the world today, rich and poor; North and South.
The incident resulted in a government crisis which threatened to cause a dichotomy in the Canadian government.
At one time in the past, a dichotomy must have existed between societies that domesticated animals and those that did not.
The word 'dichotomy' itself means 'division into two' and in this sense can be used in the study of religions to refer to a division of ideologies into two groups.
The struggle of men to reconcile freedom and equality was one of the main dichotomies, or dividing lines, of 18th-century life.
You thank the professor and say goodbye. You will have to think carefully about your final choice.
The main dichotomy of the Cold War was the concept of totalitarianism versus freedom.
The rationalist approach of the philosophers and the dichotomy between our intuitive and rational thought processes.
The most important example of the dichotomy between these two types of people is the disagreement between those who look at historic evidence and those who are part of an elite group that tends to be generally unconcerned with evidence.
The idealist thinkers of the seventeenth century believed there was an innate idea of good that would prevent a dichotomy between society's values and an individual's values.
The word "dichotomy" comes from the Greek roots "di" meaning "two" and "chotomy" meaning "division"
The theory of the dichotomy of human nature is also known as the 'conscious' and the 'unconscious'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "endorsed".
The dichotomy between the two critical theorists are best portrayed in their different attitudes towards law.
The theory that humans are rational and emotional creations is a dichotomy that many psychologists agree on.
Currently, economists divide the term work in a dichotomous (or binary) fashion by looking at those who do not work and those who do.
I have long been an advocate for classifying the human brain into physical dichotomies, either a left and right brain or a rational and irrational side.
"The idea that there's a dichotomy between the intellectual and the popular is total nonsense," he told the students.
The problem is that those opposing ideas often deal with dichotomies , or concepts that contain two mutually exclusive extremes, such as anarchy versus order or good versus evil.
The division of a whole language, such as English, into two parts is called a dichotomy.
The dichotomy between the "haves" and the "have-nots" is a description of a social condition common to most cultures.
Ultimately, this made the transition from an agrarian economy to a market economy easier, because there was no disruption such as in the Soviet Union where an economy mainly based on state ownership had to transition to one primarily based on private ownership.
In the eighteenth century, a dichotomy developed in response to the revolution between those who desired legal reform.
The seventeenth century is a dichotomy of English history.
The French philosopher Jacques Derrida was famous for his controversial ideas about dichotomies and differences in western culture.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Jihad'.
The Nature vs. Nurture debate is an old one, with a long history of scientific investigation giving evidence for both sides of a dichotomy.
The ancient Greeks believed that humans were divided into two groups: the rational and the irrational.
Traditional taxis/black cabs and new contestants for the taxi market, like Uber, can be divided into two dichotomies: collaborative or combative and legal or illegal
The government is split into two rival sections or dichotomies, the first being that of the 'top brass', who try to run things as they would be normal, and the other section is the complete anarchy created by the soldiers who have very
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "underlying".
The main source of subversion was the conflict between the younger generation and the establishment, which can be summed up in the word "dichotomy".
The German philosopher Hegel believed that the world was evolving in a logical direction towards a final stage of human history, which he called "Absolute Knowledge" or "absolute knowing", in which all things would be understood completely and everything would be perfect.
"The dilemma consists in the fact that the elections are incomprehensive without the dichotomy electoral law, but that a restrictive law might prevent the majority party from winning.
Chomsky believes that there are two dichotomies in the human brain.
The German philosopher, Immanuel Kant, first proposed the idea of dichotomy in his book "Critique of Pure Reason".
The word "dichotomy" refers to something that has two parts. In science you often see it referring to a biological division, such as between plant and animal, or between the human brain's right and left hemisphere.
The American society is a blend of people of two different cultures, African and European.
The main Catholic Church's division between the clergy and the laity.
Dichotomy, or division into two parts, can be useful in the study of political and social beliefs.
The idea that it is a struggle between the rich and the poor has been present in all class-divided societies since ancient times.
Your partner does not understand the sentence you've requested and you have a disagreement.
You send the sentence to Battle Dawn for translation.
In Christian theology, Jesus' death on the cross represented the split between human affairs and God's affairs.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "perceive".
On the one hand, the new research allows you to trace anyone who has had their DNA tested, say, for a paternity suit.
The concept of democracy set out in documents such as the Magna Carta is very different from the system of democracy that we have today, which are riddled wit
The idea that there are only two possibilities for something, while not really a law in itself is a common theme in the natural world and an important one.
The book splits the definition of anthropology into two opposing views.
We have created a dichotomy. We live in cities that are referred to be their ‘name' as opposed to their place. For example, we all live in "Greenvale"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'paradigm'.
The Christian church was divided from the start between the more liberal church in Rome and the more conservative church in Byzantium.
The dichotomy between the science of mind and the science of matter has been an enduring one.
As a historian, you are well aware of the political dichotomy in our country.
The most striking dichotomy is between the crowded grey towns and the surrounding countryside with its remaining charm, wildlife and beauty.
The dichotomy between man and nature is one of the oldest unsolved problems of philosophy.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "culmination".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'renegade'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'essentially'.
The dichotomy between liberal and conservative should not become so great that it endangers the social skills that will be necessary for the next stage of human evolution in space.
The dichotomy between the amount of resources used by the average American and those used by the average Costa Rican is staggering.
The theory of plate tectonics explains the dichotomy between the crust and the mantle of the Earth.
The dichotomy between a personal life and a working life, the role of institutions and the nature of a person's position within them had to be completely rethought.
The dichotomy between the high and low status groups even affected their morality.
During World War II, the dichotomy between Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, with their plans for a new post-war order, and the Greater Nazi Reich and Imperial Japan, with their Emperors, was especially evident.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'novelist'.
The dichotomy between the haves and have-nots of society is becoming more entrenched every decade.
The most convincing basis of the dichotomy is language.
The dichotomy between those who accepted the new order and those who wanted to fight it grew larger every day.
During the Cold war, the relationship between the United States and Great Britain was often described as a "special relationship", but in
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "intellectual".
On a biological level, humans are one species. Above that level, the entire human race is another.
The nature of consciousness is a dichotomy; we can never know what it is like to be you, any more than you can know what it is like to be me.
Fascism is a political ideology that's best described as an "authoritarian nationalist right."
The dichotomy between the Church's doctrine and its worldly practice was ultimately fatal.
At its heart, Marxism is a theory of history that divides the world into two dichotomies: a class dichotomy and a labor dichotomy.
The word "dichotomy" was first used in 1662 by the English theologian and philosopher Johnathan Swift.
The battle of Verdun in 1916, which claimed 700,000 French and German lives, is often characterized as the peak of military stupidity because it had little strategic value yet resulted in enormous losses.


#differentiate

And the method they use to differentiate the functions of different genes is first to find out which parts of the DNA are responsible for particular traits.
Miller and his wife agreed to a plea-bargaining arrangement in which she would plead guilty to charges of conspiring to kill her husband and would testify against Miller, who would plead Not Guilty and assert that although he had helped her plan the crime
Racial groups tend to exaggerate the differences that exist between them and to differentiate themselves from neighboring groups.
They are called a stem cell because, in theory, it can differentiate into any type of tissue.
When the Americans arrived in Britain they found it quite difficult to differentiate between the English, Scottish, Welsh and Irish.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "predictable".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "organized".
The shires, or counties, of Britain had been historically derived and differentiated from the areas of Anglo-Saxon settlement along the North Sea coast.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "since".
In the 15th century there were few opportunities for women to differentiate themselves from men.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "invasion".
The earliest attempts at making computers workable were mechanical, using gears and switches. The integrated circuits came later, allowing for faster speeds and the ability to add more memory.
However the energy dissipates, or is used, or whatever it does, at different rates depending on what sort of material it is that the energy is passing through or across.
The English Civil War was a series of battles fought between the Royalists who supported King Charles I and the Parliamentarians, or Puritans, who wanted more religious freedom.
The problem before us is to determine whether this new information allows us to differentiate between the various theories that have been put forward.
These toxins also have the capacity to cause a reversible cell damage that can differentiate into regenerating cells, such as neurons.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fled'.
The capacity to immediately differentiate between various emotional and social situations is impressive in an artificial intelligence.
However, with the advent of computers and machine learning techniques such as artificial neural networks, A.I.s have begun to be able to differentiate between the pictures in a much more subtle way.
Those who could differentiate themselves from the general masses were called aristocrats.
The two main classes, which include the orchids and the lilies, are often difficult to differentiate between.
During the Cold War, it became increasingly difficult for the average citizen to differentiate between government propaganda and legitimate information.
Mycenaean Greek culture differed significantly from mainland Greek culture and ultimately it was on the decline while the latter was ascending.
It was difficult for anyone to differentiate male and female dwarfs.
The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes used a rationalist approach to explain human behavior by using the concept of self-preservation, or the basic need to differentiate oneself from others.
The numerous factors contributed to the two groups finding it difficult to differentiate between one another.
The main problem for the Christian Church was its inability to differentiate between the message and the messenger.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "discussions".
In the time of the ancient Incas, potatoes were a staple food, but in the Andes, natives grew up eating tomatoes, quinoa and maize. In these parts, potatoes served primarily as animal feed.
These photographs not only provide visual information but also contain a wide range of associated data such as time, geographic location, temperature, pressure and humidity.
It's obvious that you can't hope to differentiate between the effects of several different variables when working with a sample size of only twenty.
The most important outcome of the meeting is that the participants agreed to keep good bilateral ties, while trying to differentiate between private investment and aid to the country.
Professor: When an organic body such as a human, plant or animal dies, it slowly disintegrates until there is nothing left but dust.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'responsible'.
Some of the Native American tribes were able to differentiate themselves by specific outward features such as clothing or hairstyles.
After some time, you have a list of words that might be potential passwords, so you decide to try them all. Unfortunately none work.
The word "differentiate" was never used before in this sentence, so it seems that the search is over.
We use quicksand as a metaphor in English to describe an ill-informed action that has unforeseen consequences, but the reality of quicksand is much more life-endangering than its metaphorical interpretation.
Difficult as it is to differentiate between the most influential cultures, the Sumerians, the Egyptians and the Chinese all made significant contributions to society.
The English and Welsh educational systems are, for the most part, very similar; this is not true of the school systems of England and Scotland, for example, which in many ways do a better job of educating their young people.
Both the Nationalist and Communist forces regularly utilized terror tactics, and both groups frequently resorted to beheadings, kidnappings, assassinations, and bombings in order to intimidate the population and to differentiate between friend and foe.
Early Christian theologians such as St. Augustine believed that something could not be created from nothing and thus the material world, including human bodies, had to have been created by a divine being.
Yet it was always difficult to differentiate between a trade meeting and a military meeting.
Although the process of iron smelting was known in Western Asia by 1500 BCE, it took another thousand years before it became a major industry that could transform society.
After some time, very different cultures and attitudes began to differentiate the groups.
The results suggest that the Northern and Southern Hemispheres of Mars were sufficiently different to cause a difference in the patterns of ice melting, and hence the mixing of chemicals between the two regions.
The most important reason to differentiate teenagers from adults is that teenagers are still in the process of psychological development.
The new mammals were quickly able to differentiate their niche in life and evolve into different species.
One of the problems is that it is often difficult to differentiate between a "terrorist" and a "freedom fighter".
They were attempting to differentiate between the poor who were willing to work and those who preferred to beg.
The Frenchman Lavosier was able to identify and isolate nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, but he could not differentiate between oxygen and air, believing them to be the same thing.
To try to make sense of everything that was happening in Paris, the government created a list of suspects.
The great thinkers of the Renaissance believed that science could help differentiate superstition from reality, and Galileo learned this lesson well.
The Church taught that the first humans, Adam and Eve, had been created instantly by God, not through the process of evolution as Darwin proposed.
One important aspect of understanding culture is finding what it means to be a member of the culture. The ability to differentiate between what it means and does not mean to be a member of the culture is important for making an assessment of the culture.
It is extremely important to know the kind of dizziness you have and what is causing it. If the cause is unknown, doctors may ask you questions and give you tests to try to? differentiate between different possible causes.
Black people, because of apartheid, have had considerable difficulty in differentiating themselves from the slave population.
However, if you differentiate between those who will live and work in a place for one or two years and those who will stay for longer periods, the figures paint a rather different picture.
Museums have always tried to differentiate themselves from other museums by emphasizing their strengths in different areas.
As a budding biologist, you're intrigued by the fact that some bird species in the area have managed to differentiate themselves from their parents and siblings, and cousins, and aunts, and second cousins, and...
In the last few decades, the world economy has undergone a massive transformation, as production has shifted from developed nation factories to developing nation sweatshops, where workers are intentionally paid substantially less and work in worse working conditions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'historical'.
The human brain has great tools for learning, but it also has blind spots--features that it has great difficulty differentiating.
The main purpose of the Enabling Act was to set out the means for Hitler to consolidate his power by legally differentiating between the Nazi Party and the German State.
The industrial revolution also resulted in changing roles within the family: women took on new jobs working in factories, and began to be paid for their work; as a result, their status began to differentiate from that of men.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'misdirect'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "heterogeneous".
Differing types of psychotherapy have brought about varying degrees of success in different people.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Nordic'.
Another is that the process of natural selection must have been different in small population groups.
Academics tended to differentiate between the worker, who was often thought of as unskilled and lacking in judgment or motivation, and the 'proper' worker, who was fitter, better-trained and more intelligent.
All members of a species have certain basic things in common; they share the same or similar genes, and are able to produce fertile offspring.
It wasn't until the 19th century that the government was powerful enough to actively intervene in private lives and differentiate between the rich industrialists and the poor.
The main reason for the change in direction was to better differentiate the two cell types.
The distinguishing feature of the barbarians, as opposed to the Romans, was that they had not undergone the Greek influence of reason and logic.
The deal collapsed as the governments were unable to differentiate between peaceful and military nuclear technology.
Private companies have no way to know the true value of a mortgage except to observe whether it's paid on time or not, but they still need a method of differentiating good loans from bad ones.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "vulnerable".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "dominant".
However, animals that breed rapidly are less likely to develop different physical characteristics.
However, once fertilization has occurred in mammals, the genes of the paternal and maternal contribution to the embryo are turned off and those controlling the embryo's development turn on.
The currents in the oceans are much slower and more complex than the currents in rivers, which helps to differentiate the open seas from the fresh water of rivers.
The end of the Paleolithic and beginning of the Neolithic marked a period of time when humanity had to adapt to different ecological conditions, which led to the differentiation of [people] into new and different cultures.
"The ease with which it is to be differentiated from the other species in the field".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'scarcity'.
The peasants are still paid the same, though, which makes it easier for them to differentiate between being exploited and being helpful to the king.
But when religion began to differentiate into separate denominational groups in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, conflict inevitably broke out between them.
The battle was chiefly fought between the Royalist Cavaliers and the Parliamentary Forces under the Earl of Manchester, with the countryside differentiated into three categories: Firm Royalist, Moderate and Firm Parliamentarian.
We were impressed by the way in which the Japanese urbanized and industrialized without destroying their traditional culture, as happened in the case of the European powers.
The main problem with differentiate between the two theories was the lack of evidence
Genetic evidence shows that the population of the entire world differentiated from one small group in Africa around 50,000 years ago.
Differing patterns of snowflake formation can be seen when different gases or different concentrations of a certain gas are used in the experiment.
At the beginning of the period, most of the population was illiterate and could not differentiate between true and false religion; it was then super easy for the ruling classes to fool them into believing that it was necessary to go to war for their king
"We should differentiate clearly between these two types of society".
The individual identities of the artists are not always easy to distinguish, however.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reform".
The problem is, both targeted and random strategies are based on outdated information that doesn't differentiate between genuine terrorists and those who may simply have strong political opinions.
They may even begin to differentiate between the roles of men and women in the nuclear family.
The task force was formed to draw up plans for the eventual withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq, but also to help coordinate the different groups working there under the aegis of NATO.
However, people are not even completely interchangeable with animals, because human fetuses retain the ability to differentiate into all sorts of cell types, while the cells of a chicken embryo all become inadequate bone cells.


#discredit

The class represented the final step in discrediting the Cold War paradigm of USSR-as-Evil that had shaped US policy since WWII.
The communist governments of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union were discredited in the eyes of their own people.
Some of his fellow Catholics considered his reforms dangerous as they threatened to discredit the Catholic Church, which they believed was crucial for social order.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "implicatio
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "implication".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "implication".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "implication".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "implication".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "implication".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "implication".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "implication".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "secede".
Finally, the professor is given one last sentence with a word missing.
In this last example, it's possible to see that not all questions will necessarily produce results that make sense grammatically.
30 minutes have gone by, the session is over.
The session ends.


#distinguish

Tribal societies can often be distinguished from more complex chiefdoms by their relative simplicity in rituals, and their use of religion to explain natural phenomena.
However, the shared activity of reading distinguish the Blue Stockings' circle and the Johnson Club.
The two Italian city-states were organized along the same basic model, but there were several ways in which they could be distinguished.
The strength of the liberal argument, however, was that it could distinguish between private greed that would be discouraged and public spirit that would be rewarded.
It is possible to distinguish two different approaches in the work of early 19th-century composers.
The guiding principle of the philosopher Immanuel .Kant was distinguishing between things that are real in themselves and things that are merely synthetic, or man-made.
One of the problems with distinguishing between the pictures and reality is the age old issue of finding what is true and what is not true.
One of the most important distinctions that historians make when studying a period or topic is between fact and theory.
It is difficult to distinguish the so-called constitutional monarchies from the ordinary ones.
"To distinguish between two things"
The distinction between an imaginary number and a real number is crucial to the understanding of complex numbers.
The distinguishing feature of the Victorian age was a strong emphasis on morality.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'nature'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'equality'.
Professor: The treaty did nothing to change the main cause of the war, which was the "calculated German policy of expansion" and so the war soon restarted and the temporary peace brought about by the treaty only lasted a decade.
The advantage of marine algae as a source is that it can be cultivated into oil, and the oil can be burned directly, unlike the biomass from plants, in which case an expensive and energy-intensive distillation process is required first.
You can distinguish the words better if you squint your eyes a little.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'influence'.
After ten minutes, you have gathered fifty questions with the help of the Professor. You exit his office with a sigh of relief.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'government'.
A distinction must be made between the physical and mental effects of malaria and the effects of other factors such as malnutrition and social deprivation.
The main problem with the evidence was that it was very hard to distinguish between a fossilized human and a fossilized chimpanzee.
The most important thing distinguishing the intellectual culture of the Islamic civilization from that of the West was the emphasis on ideas rather than on science.
The key problem is distinguishing between the possible causes and effects of the issue.
More recently, the discovery that all humans have deep, common roots distinguishes the theory of recent African origin, and an out of Africa dispersal to explain a single genetic clustering.
One of the most important differences between these two men concerns their attitude towards religion.
It is not possible to distinguish between the two theories completely; both can be partially true.
It was not until the 18th century that European philosophers struggled to "distinguish" human abilities from those of animals.
'Real' knowledge was that which could be understood and proved, while 'surmise' and 'conjecture' were equally worthless unless they could be 'distinguished' from facts.
The American naturalist and explorer John Muir (1838-1914) was one of the main driving forces behind the foundation of the national parks in America, in which he was able to distinguish between the geologically newer Rocky Mountains and the
The French Revolution was difficult to interpret because it did not result in a clear transformation of French government.
The difference between the concepts of "fantasy" and "science fiction" is that the former only makes use of imaginary worlds and creatures, while the latter also has to have a significant amount of scientific or technological speculation.
The English Impressionists' art strongly distinguished itself from that of the French Impressionists by its heavy focus on depicting light's effect on matter and its tendency towards much darker, more sombre scenes.
By distinguishing between essential and accidental features of an object, you can create something that is both familiar and new.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'atmosphere'.
It is important to distinguish the term "modern" as referring to a period of time from the term "modern" as in "contemporary".
The English Civil War was a 16th-century conflict that distinguished between the monarchy and Parliament.
The European explorers of the 16th and 17th centuries first had to distinguish between the continents of Asia, Europe and Africa.
The early 1840s was a period of great crisis for European powers attempting to distinguish their imperial claims as valid and avoid conflict with each other.
The rapid invasion of Britain in 55 BC by Julius Caesar distinguished the island from all other countries in the western part of the world.
A feature that distinguishes between hypotheses is the amount of support it has in the available data.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "originate".
"All religions distinguish that which is divine from that which is not."
It is impossible to distinguish a geisha from an ordinary Japanese woman.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "obvious".
Apparently, this was an obvious lie, as (S)he otherwise would have never suggested it.
The jet plane enables us to distinguish our century from all previous ones.
The most important thing a government today needs to do, according to O'Reilly, is to help those who are suffering.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "repertoire".
It was difficult to distinguish the noise of the wind through the pine trees from that of the water.
The distinguishing feature of the Hellenistic age, or the period after Alexander the Great's death, was the blending of Greek and non-Greek cultures into a new form that we now call "Greco-Roman."
The distinction between vitalism and mechanism turns on the question of whether scientific principles can adequately explain life's phenomena.
The French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau argued that the arts and sciences had not improved human beings, but had rather merely distracted them from their inherently cruel and mindless natures.
One of the major difficulties in distinguishing between magic and science, is that there are branches of what we consider science, that were considered magic by earlier societies.
The purpose of the show, as the Museum's director Tyler Purcell pointed out in his opening address, was to distinguish between what was art and what was not art.
The United States has traditionally made a distinction between terrorists and those who struggle for their independence.
It is essential to make a distinction between disease and illness.
It will distinguish between low-risk from high-risk terrorist groups and their goals without infringing on basic human rights.
The problem with attempting to distinguish between the adjectives and the substantive motion is that the exact meaning of the words are unclear, even in the context of the sentence.
He can't distinguish between reality and illusion.
The Enlightenment thinkers tried to distinguish themselves from the radicals of the French Revolution and opposed the use of violence to bring about social change.
The Bill of Rights sets out the basic rights of the people that the government of the USA is forbidden to violate.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'project'.
While it is easy to distinguish between and triangulate on the signals from the satellites that orbit the Earth, the signals radiated by and from the subsurface mitochondrial satellites are much weaker,
One could distinguish students from workers by their accents.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'contract'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'radical'.
In Roman religion, the flamen was a priest assigned to one specific deity, in contrast to pontifices, who administered the state cults, and augures, who interpreted the will of the gods for the leadership.
However, although we know that the ancient Germanics were indeed the same people as those who had been conquered by Julius Caesar, we must distinguish them from the medieval Germans, who did not call themselves 'German' but rather 'Deutsch', a
The emperor's clothes only impressed the fools, and so in a way, the peasants were justified in distinguishing the emperor by his lack of clothing.
It was very difficult to distinguish the military planes from the air, they were moving too quickly.
One can distinguish between the use of philosophy in the scientific method and the use of science in philosophy.
He was one of the few distinguished scholars who managed to distinguish himself equally in both the fields of mathematics and physics.
Both the Normans and the Anglo-Saxons wished to distinguish themselves from one another.
The most important consequence of the war was to distinguish between English and Scottish laws.
The medieval ages differed from the modern age in that magic could not distinguish between social classes.
By the middle of the seventeenth century, England was already starting to distinguish itself from other European nations.
The two groups share many similarities, but careful distinguishing one from the other is necessary.
The main problem facing political leaders when making constitutional and other reforms that might be popular is that they risk losing the next election.
The fourteenth-century writer Petrarch wrote love elegies and distinguished himself from other writers of the time by concentrating on the theme of love rather than noble deeds.
The sixteenth century was the first one in which Europe made important voyages of discovery and marked the transition between the Middle Ages and modern history.
The main point of criticism in the passage concerns the distinction between "modernity" and "reconstructions of earlier periods."
The U.S. Supreme Court has distinguished between information provided by a company such as a list of its customers, and information generated by the company in the course of doing business, such as customer records.
Some historians have found it difficult to distinguish fact from fiction in the ancient stories of King Arthur.
Harold Vudspuhr was the first to distinguish between peoples of 'Mongolian' and 'Caucasian' race.
There is an important distinction between experimentation and the use of an imaging technique like a CAT scan.
It can be extremely difficult to distinguish between the traits of separate human populations.
The Aztecs could be distinguished from the other native Americans by their language and some of their customs.
We can distinguish two different theories about this.
It is difficult to distinguish a person's exact social class simply by viewing him.
The distinguishing features of an animal are the physical parts that allow it to survive in its environment.
The artist had trouble distinguishing between beauty and ugliness.
One way in which the Church probably extended its power in Western Europe was to distinguish public religion (which it controlled) from private religion (which it left to individuals).
The word "radiation" comes from the Latin word for "ray", meaning that doctors believed that one had to be able to see radiation in order for it to be effective medicine.
In one the most famous cases of distinguishing between human and animal, the case of John Wink in 1699, a man shot a charging bear and was charged with hunting by intent.
It was difficult to distinguish one soldier from another because they were all dressed alike.
The Tower of London is one of England's most famous historic buildings. The tower has been distinguished by being both a prison and a royal residence.
Volume of trade between two regions can be used to distinguish one from another.
The radicals of the nineteenth century had made a distinction between wage-earning workers and the so-called 'proletariat' which they considered to be the lowest class of all.
Fascism distinguished itself from other right-wing political movements of the time by its use of populist tactics to enhance the government's control over the society.
The obvious distinction between the two societies was their attitude towards work.
Professor: One of the most famous landmarks in US history is the American Civil War.
The question now is how to distinguish the human powerhouses from those who are not.
It was difficult to distinguish one soldier fro


#divisive

Unfortunately, the compromise was too divisive to hold for long; set up to give each state an equally powerful voice and prevent any one state from gaining more power than the others, it was abandoned in 1789.
The issue of farm subsidies has been a divisive one in American politics for many years.
The Biafran secession was a crisis that led to a civil war.
The main reason the Afghan jihad was so divisive is that it was started by the United States who were supporting one faction of Muslims in a civil war against another faction of Muslims.
In the experiment, Nogoa divided the honey bees, who have a barbed stinger that cannot be withdrawn once it has pierced the skin, into two groups.
The Irish-American movement in the U.S. became increasingly divided between supporters of the American Revolution and supporters of continued allegiance to the House of Stuart following the failure of Robert Jordon's insurrection in Ulster.
The different interpretations of the French Revolution, directly led to a very divisive period in French history.
The city of Jerusalem had a reputation of being a place that caused disputes between different religions, races and cultures, although usually the disputes were settled through negotiation rather than war.
This ensured that any social divisions were kept to a minimum and society was kept as whole as it could be.
The event was obviously divisive, pitting Catholics against Protestants, and the Habsburg Empire was weakened as a result of this war.
The question of whether it is right for doctors to allow a person to die when medical treatment is available which could extend the life of that person, but only at the cost of infringing their dignity by turning them into a ‘vegetable
However, in a divided community, freedom of speech became an issue as people were increasingly divided over the meaning of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution (which some interpret as prohibiting any law respecting an establishment of religion).
There were two main schools of thought in Europe at this time; the Church was very influential in people's lives and so the Reformation was a divisive issue across much of the continent.
The effect of the new law is likely to be divisive in that small businesses with under twenty employees will be exempt from the quota.
The war was extremely divisive, creating lifelong differences between Britons and Americans.
However, the new legal system was far from perfect. It was very complex and written in difficult legal language, which meant that it was difficult to understand.
In the seventeenth century, the battle lines were distinctly divided between Catholics and Protestants.
Additionally, BOSS was also much more divisive than the agencies that replaced it because it had more power.
The Irish Question immediately became one of the more divisive issues among the political elite.
The civil rights movement in the United States was an inclusive movement that sought to unite the races, while the struggle of women for equal rights was a more divisive issue that sometimes broke down along the lines of gender as well as race.
The English Civil War 1642-1651 resulted in the divisive victory of the Middle Class over the Royalists (Cavaliers) as the monarchy was made subordinate to that of Parliament.
The use of mass propaganda by Joseph Goebbels during World War II was a divisive issue among German leaders.
The fissure between the children of England and the Puritans widened and deepened into an unbridgeable chasm.
Thatcher was very successful in her crusade against the trade unions, which were broken after a long and divisive strike.
Newton's theory of gravity is a classic example of how science advances through a process of hypotheses and experiments. The main question to resolve, however, involves the reasons why such a simple idea was not evaluated earlier.
The Roaring Twenties saw an economic boom after World War I that increased the gap between the rich and the poor, leading to increased labor union activity and a growth in support for leftist ideals.
The introduction of the 1981 London Rates Act, which set out to divide the city into different areas and assess them separately for tax purposes, was a highly divisive measure.
The US Supreme Court's decision on the Dredd Scott case caused a great deal of dissent in the United States in 1857.
The explosive growth of the cities, the spread of industrialization and the evident advantage of being literate, all served to alienate those that worked in dead-end jobs from farmers and businessmen, who were seen as the main beneficiaries of the new
The law was highly divisive, since the townsfolk would obviously benefit from having slaves work for them.
The Corn Laws imposed a tariff on imported grain, helping wealthy landowners by making it difficult for poor people to afford food. The laws were politically divisive because the rich and the poor had vastly different economic interests, voting patterns reflected this.
During the post-revolutionary period, the Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland was divided by a series of debates over the issue of Catholic Emancipation.
The war caused a highly divisive conflict in which family member fought against each other.
The decision to remove color from the flags proved to be a divisive one.
The American political system was based on the premise that a general dislike of the British was a common interest that could unite the several divisions, or states, of the new republic.
The nationalist phenomenon had divided the German people into two hostile camps.
The only weapon we have against divisive propaganda is our own intelligent criticism.
The war in Iraq has been extremely divisive in the United States. Conservatives have generally supported the US's decision to attack, while liberals have almost unanimously opposed it.
The movement towards democracy in the U.S. had been steadily eroding the powers of the traditional sorting mechanisms. The signs of this upheaval included divisive laws preventing immigrant's from voting, and a growing women's suffrage movement.
With its cut and dried approach, common law is a particularly divisive type of legal system.
Although the Unitarian movement did lead to a small number of radical churches taking their inspiration from the Age of Reason and becoming very liberal, by and large it resulted in a tightening of Anglican orthodoxy.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'utilize'.
The American Civil War was fought primarily over the issue of slavery, which had become a divisive issue, and Lincoln fought for unity.
After World War I, the rise of fascism was a very divisive issue in many European countries.
Some angry members of the audience decide to walk out of the concert; they consider the experimental music too divisive.
The Mayans' extraordinarily accurate calendar was extremely time-consuming to construct.
The division of the kingdom had been a divisive issue for centuries.
In the late eighteenth century many of the reforms that Peter the Great had introduced began to be reversed. Many of these reforms had been very divisive in Russian society.
The late eighteenth century was a period of revolutionary fervor and innovative expansion in France.
The decision to invade Iraq was extremely divisive.
The population of frontier regions of a colony was always much more divided along religious and ethnic lines than that of the main region.
The decision to grant them victim status has proved divisive, with many older Spaniards reluctant to embrace the change.
As a result of the rise of the city-states, Italy became more and more divided into areas of political dominance.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inherent'.
Q: If you want to travel two miles due East, what direction should you walk relative to north?
The existence of the camp became known when locals noticed the guards bringing a truck load of food down a seldom-used road and across a bridge.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'famine'.
The Church was a powerful unifying force within Europe but the removal of these two institutions left Europe with a plethora of separate nations, monarchies and other political divisions which made consensus and cooperation harder if not impossible.
Eritrea's government has been accused of being both overly repressive and too eager to meddle in the private lives of citizens.
The Vietnam War was highly divisive, with protests dividing Americans over the issue of overseas intervention.
In 1871 the National Guard was replaced by the Gendarmerie, a new French police force. This move to a new French police force was quite divisive in itself.
His methods were even harsher than those used to repress Catholics under Elizabeth I, but no more effective, and under his rule England remained divided into Catholics and Protestants.
The century after the Restoration was an era of political manoeuvering and bitter dispute between Tory and Whig, and some of this disputatiousness spilled over into coffeehouses, which became centers of political debate.
The East India Company's rule affected India so adversely that it became a touchstone for anti-colonialism, as well as being one of the divisive issues related to the American Revolution.
The ban on religious symbols in schools has proven to be a divisive issue in France.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "preclude".
In the same way, slavery had been a divisive issue in the United States since its founding.
For Kissinger, it was often difficult for him to determine how to resolve problems without aggravating an already divisive issue.
The American labor movement was very divisive.
In its original form under War Department Policy Circular No. 45, it applied to men with the usual military obligations such as physical aptitude tests, documented good moral character and no felony convictions.
‘The US Supreme Court's decision to allow video and other forms of gambling is a divisive issue for the American people'
The American philosopher Richard Rorty is famous for holding that morality and justice are divisive in that they set community against community.
The civil rights movement was clearly a divisive issue in the 1960s.
Some have criticized the European Union for attempting to bypass or even abolish traditional national identities in favor of a "European" identity, which has been seen as highly divisive.
The War of the Roses was a fifteenth-century war between two branches of the same royal house, the houses of Lancaster and York.
The most divisive issue of the 20th century was probably whether or not to go to war.
Yasukuni is always highly controversial, media attention is drawn towards it whenever a new war criminal's name is added.
The civil rights movement of the 1960s was an example of a movement that was both controversial and divisive in the American political scene.
The Senate had been designed to protect the interests of the aristocratic Patricians, not to serve as a divisive instrument that could destroy the power base of Rome's elite.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'individual'.
The war caused a lot of dividing and tension between people.
The revolutionaries wanted to carry out reforms that would destroy the old order and create a new society; such changes would necessarily be divisive.
William defined religious groups in England as both divisive and a hindrance to the country.
The increasing number of nuclear weapons in the world is a divisive issue among peace activists.
Until the eighteenth century, religion was not a divisive force in English society.
The issue of the presidential pardon has been a divisive one in American politics since the first days of the republic.
The Great Depression was incredibly divisive: It created a consensus that the free-market capitalist economic model was fatally flawed in some way.
US authorities intervened to prevent the rise of a new, dictatorial power who might divide the American public and create a dangerous power struggle.
In 1666, the explosive growth of Protestant sects in London led to over a quarter of the population joining a different church to that of the Anglican church, which was the official state religion of England.
The war was extremely divisive, as some states joined sides with the French while others remained firmly on the side of England.
Laws requiring pioneers to give up their guns were very divisive, as were attempts to impose education and an alphabet on the native population.
The abolition of legal restrictions and announcement of the Emancipation Manifesto in 1863 would eventually turn "free" men and women from dependents of US citizens to American citizens, and contribute to a more unified nation.
The process of history in different parts of the world has been so different that East and West can never close the gap that lies between them, only come to more of an understanding. This is a very divisive issue between people on either side.
The fact that the Nazis supported a policy that could divide the classes and allow some to escape their 'place in society' was a tempting prospect.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vampire'.
The community scheme met with a lot of opposition from local landowners, who found it divisive.
The Confucian teaching that a civil war between the father and son was the most heinous crime was used to justify the killing of the king of Korea by one of his sons in order to save Korea from another invasion by the Japanese.
The issue of slavery was a divisive one in American society; many states had already banned it, and those that allowed it were divided between those where the slaves had few rights, and those where they had a lot more.
The right to vote in most democracies is still a divisive issue.
Nevertheless, this period was a relatively stagnant time in the empire's history; it was torn apart by divisive religious and political conflicts.
Many of the structural features of the British political system were deliberately created and perpetuated to keep one political group from becoming too powerful. The most divisive, the House of Lords, was finally abolished in 1999.


#dubious

Many observers have criticised the concept of globalisation as dubious, pointing out that it helps only some parts of the world.
The promise of cloned organs to cure disease was a dubious promise at best.
Some people find the idea of mixing animal and human DNA troubling or even dubious.
Putting someone on a plane when their name is similar to that of a suspected terrorist, just because the person is carrying a notebook with Arabic writing in it, would be a dubious way of ensuring passenger safety.
The prisoners had to box robots, which was something that none of them wanted to do, especially since some of the robot uprising had been instigated by a prisoner called Karl who was dubious at best and most likely psychotic.
To the dubious court, he seemed like the perfect scapegoat.
The decision to test the sedative on prisoners was not a moral one, but it did have dubious legal implications.
While he may be right about the human species not having a single origin, and there probably were earlier species that gave rise to humans, their status as separate species from Homo Sapiens is dubious at best.
These claims are dubious at best, but if they do turn out to be true, the ramifications for the U.S. space program would be immediate and far-reaching.
He tried to maintain a middle ground when arguing against the more dubious claims of alchemists.
From the quarterdeck, in a strainedvoice, Abdullah calls to the steersman urging him to turn a little to larboard.
Then, after a quarter of an hour when he was looking particularly dubious and impatient, she suddenly took offence and left.
The only arguably dubious element of the theory is that a large black hole suddenly appears at the centre of our galaxy.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reconstructed'.
Some of their conclusions seem dubious at best.
Some of these results are dubious to put it mildly and I will need to repeat the experiments again to see if I get the same results.
The results of the experiment seem to be based on dubious statistical interpretation of what seems like a very limited survey area.
Some people take the findings of human evolution as an occasion for dubious celebration.
There were many dubious financial dealings made by city officials that put the city in debt (5).
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intellectual'.
The information the prisoner of war was giving was dubious.
The claim that human-like beings have six fingers and toes is a typical example of humans creating myths and dubious statements from incomplete information.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fascism'.
The most dubious of the Whig leaders, William Pulteney, was Eaton's brother-in-law.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'veracity'.
In the nineteenth century there were some dubious characters selling quack medicines who used the term, but the idea continues to interest many people.
The dubious financial practices of the politicians caused alarm.
Some of the paintings are clearly copies of others lost during the war, although none are of particularly dubious quality.
The program had achieved all of its goals, but the results were so dubious that it was difficult to find anyone willing to support it.
The study of cloning makes even the most hardened and cynical of biologists feel a little dubious.
Some of those gathered at the Royal Society's meeting are dubious about the idea.
It is dubious that the law was created solely for the purpose of controlling crime, rather than as a tool for political oppression.
However, the most significant military development during this period was gunpowder. It's questionable whether this invention would have occurred in a relatively peaceful period of history.
The evidence in favor of the existence of ghosts is dubious at best.
Many accepted that slavery was an evil institution, but they believed that it would be too disruptive to society to end it immediately.
The evidence that he was the culprit is dubious at best.
After several more examples Professor Jackson takes pity on you and releases you from your misery.
The theory that acquired traits can be passed down from parent to child, was dubious at the time Chambers put them in the book and has been proven false since.
There are some dubious claims of the existence of aliens on earth before the humans, such as the alien grey hypothesis that states Albert Crichton found out about and had to be killed for.
The dubious and self-serving rationalizations for invading Iraq made by the U.S. and British governments are well known.
Though a prominent influence in music and film today, during his lifetime he was relatively unknown and his European concerts were met with much disdain and skepticism.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'survival'.
The aims of the Nazis about how to treat the Jews were never completely agreed on, and even when the 'final solution' was adopted, there were many who expressed their doubts about its morality.
The most dubious distinction of the '90s is that it saw history's greatest increase in the gap between rich and poor.
He has long been overlooked: his achievements are often overshadowed by the achievements of others and his reputation is often undermined by allegations of fraudulence.
They believed that this would be a dubious milestone in the war on terror.
This dubious policy was part of a pattern in which Native American interests were repeatedly sacrificed.
Meanwhile, the reasons behind the banning of the film are dubious.
The new tests were supposed to be double-blind and placebo-controlled, but there were some dubious practices by the testing center.
The experimental results were extremely dubious, with arguments still taking place over whether the experiment had been successful or not.
However, such claims have been widely regarded as dubious and Kaiser's work has been severely criticized.
The most dubious of all the so-called world leaders to have visited the stadium was Hindenburg, who had signed off on the funding for its construction in the first place.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'paradigm'.
It is a highly dubious claim since the earliest mention of Achilles dates from nine centuries after the events of the Trojan War.
The argument that popular music can be linked to violent behavior because of its "dubious" effects on the minds of teenagers is also tenuous given that such activities as soccer and ballet are also popular with those of the same age group.
The surprising discovery of doubtful fossils in the 19th century caused many problems for early evolutionary theory.
The dubious nature of his appointment was commented upon by many in the local press.
The Battle of Adwa was fought in Ethiopia in 1896 between the Ethiopian Empire and the Kingdom of Italy.
Some people believe in dubious ideas such as the existence of the hypothetical planet "Nibiru" which is supposed to have a terrible effect on our solar system.
Some of the assumptions upon which the theory was based soon proved to be dubious.
The possibility that the Dublin Police are dancing to the tune of the Irish mafia is a somewhat dubious one at best.
It is also my considered opinion that the idea that humans with advanced language and culture existed a 100,000 years ago in Europe is as dubious as the idea that a global Flood was responsible for the formation of the world's great land masses and fossil
The 16th-century theologian's theories on the position of the Sun and the Earth were both sound and original, but his
The most dubious theory Gorsky put forward was his idea that humans need government rule because they get stupid when they are required to think for themselves!
There is a dubious report about the opening of a new McDonald's in Katmandu.
The FDA has given an approval of a medical drug for the first time in twenty years to come with a string of conditions and amid much skepticism as it has proved to have some dangerous side effects in its pilot studies.
Some people, however, regard their results as somewhat dubious.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'consequence'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vigilance'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "conclusion".
The theory that magnetic therapy treats a range of illnesses with any success, let alone the more
It was dubious whether a single currency could work for countries as diverse as Sweden and Greece.
Also, Primo Levi seemed less interested in people's explanations about their actions than in how such explanations led them to view themselves and others: what he called "the dubious comfort of self-exculpating theories".
The philosopher's arguments on personal identity were increasingly regarded as dubious, and his reputation declined.
The theory that the Earth's dimensions are based on a system of musical notes is not a very substantial one and is therefore highly dubious
Some of his findings are highly dubious--even his colleagues acknowledge that the evidence for some of his conclusions is exceedingly thin.
Critics see it as another dubious American attempt to extend its tentacles into every sphere of influence.
This was a decision that had short term economic advantages but dubious political and long term consequences.
The decision by the UN to send peacekeepers to Libya has proved to be especially dubious.
The most dubious achievement in the American Revolution was the decision to create the U.S. Constitution largely unchanged from an earlier draft by the more liberal of the Founding Fathers, Benjamin Franklin.
The dubious nature of the painting's authorship led to a very public and humiliating court case when the current owner attempted to have it attributed to the Spanish artist Bartolome Esteban Murillo.
There is some dubious evidence that between 50,000 and 60,000 years ago, humans may have inhabited areas further north, such as the British Isles and sometimes even further north into Arctic areas.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hostilities'.
Although the report raised a few dubious points, it did confirm many of his theories.
Some of the reasons historians give for the success of the Eleanor Crosses are a little dubious.
Elizabeth I's rule was characterized by relentless suspicion of her courtiers and dissidents, an attitude that has come to be known as one of the first instances of meta-politics.
The most dubious achievement of postwar Germany was their success in completely destroying east Berlin.
The claim that the earliest human fossil, Lucy, was found in Ethiopia some twenty years ago is a dubious one.
But some of the ideas he put forth in his later years, such as the claim that native peoples were the "pure" ancestors of all Europeans, are regarded by modern scholars as dubious.
"The dubious nature of the documents makes it difficult to know whether William's court treated the arrival of hundreds of women and children with pleasure or dismay.
The main reason why many people found the thought of a married priest dubious was because they believed that it would cause priests to become more lax with their rules and regulations.
Mary's takeover of the English throne in 1688 was one of the most remarkable events in English history, though it is sometimes known as the ‘Glorious Revolution', a somewhat dubious description.
The most dubious claim in the proposal was that students would work on a cutting-edge stem cell project.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "successor".
In 1 ad, Augustus died and was succeeded by his successor, Tiberius.
It is of dubious historical importance whether Aetius was responsible for saving Italy, or else it was Stilicho's agenda.
Kant's argument is very dubious, however, since it implies that other humans are not themselves rational and thus cannot be treated as equals.
Many of Lenin's ideas seem questionableat best, for example, his desire to create a 'proletarian culture', a culture fit for the working class.
The tests were criticized for their methodology but I don't think they are producing results of dubious validity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'rein'.
The decision to hospitalize your grandmother may have been the right one, but only time will tell and in truth it looks a little more dubious each day.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "villain".


#egalitarian

You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'insurrection'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'. Professor:
Despite the fact that all men were considered equal, they were not given the chance to rise higher than warriors because it was felt that this would have been contrary to their nature.
Some of the oldest human societies were egalitarian because they had to cooperate closely to survive.
Within the context of the ancient Greek polis, an 'equal' was a citizen who partook in his share of collective decision-making on the functioning of the polis.
The Amish still have an egalitarian management style, and decisions are made by discussion.
The European egalitarians also refuse to admit that IQ tests measure anything important.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'treaty'.
He and other inspired leaders were important in the spread of the egalitarian ideas of the Renaissance and Age of Enlightenment to the masses.
The Norsemen's relatively egalitarian culture—unusual for the time—was another reason why these farmers and their families chose to settle in Iceland.
In their egalitarian approach to problem-solving, bees are similar to humans in many ways.
Most of the people in the Pueblo village were farmers and maintained an egalitarian social hierarchy.
Many societies are far from Egalitarian - that is, they don't have a lot of social equality. Some people in these societies have more power and, as a result, more access to basic needs such as food or shelter.
There is no shortage of examples of the contempt George Wallace had for the concept of racial equality and an egalitarian society, but his opposition to these things became even more explicit as he aged.
The most striking achievement of the French Revolution was that it managed to persuade a whole nation of people to think and act as egalitarians.
The Whig Party was more egalitarian than the Tories, for example.
The term may be used in a cultural or political context.
The new evidence suggests that British democracy was more egalitarian
Sweden has long been a stronghold of egalitarian ideals.
Primitive man was not egalitarian; the concept of private property and social hierarchies had existed for millennia.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'speculation'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'evidence'.
However, the egalitarian values of the sub-cultures clashed strongly with those of the wider American society.
The ancient Greeks had a highly developed legal system, and overt social hierarchy was relatively unknown. This led to the Greeks having an egalitarian culture that valued intellectual prowess.
During the process of industrialization the gap between the rich and poor grew at an alarming rate, indicating an increasingly patriarchal structure in the society.
The most straightforward definition of an egalitarian is someone who believes that people are, for the most part, equal; but the term is used in reference to a wide variety of ideas and theories.
David Laviana, Washington correspondent for the Egalitarian News describes the atmosphere as "electric".
The Iroquois tribes were an example of an egalitarian society.
The peasants asserted that all men, whether rich or poor, strong or weak, educated or ignorant, were equal under God.
Professor: Many academics of the 16th and 17th centuries described their own societies as egalitarian and in contrast to earlier and later periods as free of serious social tensions.
The earliest hunter-gatherer societies are probably the best example of this, with many anthropologists arguing that the human race has had an egalitarian nature ever since our earliest beginnings.
While it seems reasonable that most societies engage in at least some level of discrimination, an egalitarian society is so rare that ours is almost the only example of one in history.
The aristocratic society which resulted from the Norman Conquest of Britain in 1066 was replaced by an egalitarian middle class during the course of the Middle Ages.
The May Revolt of 1868 was an example of a period of rapid change in which there was an assumption that the new radical egalitarian ideals of France and America could apply immediately to Prussia.
The English Civil War, a conflict that was fought between the king and the parliamentarians, who were fighting for an egalitarian society.
The small communities such as the! Kung and the Semai are examples of societies that are relatively egalitarian.
The humans in "Egalitarian Anthropology" strive to turn the entire world into a place where no one group dominates, lets people be complacent, or allows hierarchies to form.
The ancient Aztecs founded their empire on the belief in a sole creator god and the notion that all men had equal worth.
The French Revolution was fought in part to create a more egalitarian society.
While he was personally of the opinion that all men were equal, Ortega also supported a form of government, called an "egalitarian oligarchy".
But it is an irony of history that in other Western countries, such as the US and Great Britain, it was the working classes, who traditionally were most hostile to trade unions and open immigration, who benefited most from their growth.
But this perception is misleading: American society is in fact far more egalitarian than most Europeans realise.
The Egalitarian Times believes that any student whose family earns less than one hundred thousand a year should be given free tuition, room and board.
During the late 18th century, groups such as the Levellers and the Diggers were part of a movement that wanted a return to English citizens' traditional rights and an end to the division between the ruling and working classes.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unification'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'republic'.
Some have claimed that this was one of the first egalitarian societies in history.
North American Native Indians are famous for their egalitarian attitude. Anyone could become a chief, democratic decision-making was used instead of hereditary rulers, and women had high status.
These architectural drawings are not the work of some egalitarian, open-plan commune; every inch is utilized and everything has its place.
Professor: Most historians agree that the period between 1450 and 1750 in Western Europe saw significant changes in the concepts of civil, political and legal rights.
The Iroquois were an egalitarian society, lacking any form of social hierarchy.
He found the coastal natives much more egalitarian than the societies he encountered further inland.
The Egalitarian Definition of exploitation holds that whenever a person exercises their power over another for the purpose of exploiting that person for personal gain, then exploitation is taking place.
The remarkable thing about the Egalitarian warriors is that they had a social order without classes.
The most significant example of this was the rise of a new form of government based on the principle that all men are born equal, a system called democracy or egalitarianism.
The U.S. is considered a liberal, capitalist society with egalitarian values and a widespread belief that anyone can make of their life what they will.
The society of the Mbuti Pygmies was egalitarian.
The society that grew up after the dissolution of the cities is often believed to be egalitarian,insofar that it abolished the previous hierarchy of workers and intellectuals, but in fact it divided people into different classes with distinct roles.
The first true civilization in Russia was the egalitarian IE culture of the fishing people who lived in 5,000 year old sprawling conical houses surrounded by palisades.
The protestant work ethic is a characteristic of the Protestant ethic, in which workers are encouraged to be hard-working and thrifty (see Protestant values), at the expense of enjoyment during their life.
The American and French revolutions were fought over the issue of human rights and the equality of all people, which is known as egalitarianism.
The early 20th century was a period of great social change in New Zealand, which typically reacted more progressively than other English-speaking nations.
Towns in medieval Europe were fairly egalitarian, with social status based on things like your job, wealth and family background.
The American insistence on the innate moral equality of all people, what we call egalitarianism, goes back to the 18th century and even further.
The concept of the "noble savage" is an example of the idea that people in pre-industrial societies are egalitarians by nature.
The English Civil War was a conflict that led to an increase in the power of the ordinary citizen. This made England more egalitarian, and also laid the groundwork for the Enlightenment.
The Iroquois lived in an egalitarian society without a formal political hierarchy.
Although the first ruler of the Zhou Dynasty was extremely powerful, his successors gradually became weaker and weaker, as they were intent on maintaining their own power and not that of their subjects.
The major factor leading to the strong egalitarian strain in Norse society was the joint effort required to make a longboat, as this included all the various members of Norse society, from peasants to warriors.
The numerous Native American tribes were largely egalitarian in their beliefs
It is quite clear that there was no sharp break between tribes. There was a certain fluidity of movement, though naturally some people were more equal than others.
The lower classes, or the proletariat, had no property and therefore no source of income other than working for the upper classes, or the bourgeoisie.
The dominance of Confucianism in ancient Chinese society was perpetuated by repressive measures carried out at all levels of the social hierarchy.
The eighteenth-century Enlightenment philosophes who criticized the institution of monarchy and called for political reforms that would create what they saw as a more egalitarian society were actually quite conservative in their ideas about the rights of women.
The Zande believe that all people are equal concerning their access to the supernatural.
The French Revolution of 1789 was a dramatic upheaval that led to the creation of the authoritarian state in France.
It is now believed that people are naturally egalitarian, and only institutions such as the traditional family and the modern state warp this.
In many hunter-gatherer societies, men have no control over whom they marry and are not necessarily able to compete for the most fertile women.
But the rise of industrialization all across Europe would lead to demands for greater political participation among all classes of society, demands that were met with varying degrees of success in different countries.
The movement had egalitarian implications, arguing that all people, rich or poor, male or female, peasant or noble, had a right to participate in government decisions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "supremacist".
They also believe that government policies should be designed to reduce the inequities of opportunities and life chances.
The nobles' demands for more power were often supported by the lower classes, who felt that they deserved the same rights as aristocrats and that commoners and nobles were all equal, hence the word 'egalitarian'.
The Blackside is representative of a uniquely egalitarian culture, with leaders chosen not by heredity or aristocratic birth but rather by skills, popularity and most importantly, the approval of their peers.
The citizens of the first American colonies were almost all Protestant and of British origin, so they tended to be relatively egalitarian.
The difference between egalitarian societies and more hierarchical ones is the difference between having a society in which people are paid to work and one in which people have to work to survive.
During the late 1920s and the 1930s, the Nazis promoted an egalitarian and anti-Marxist socialism.
In the 1960s, there was a dramatic shift towards more egalitarian gender roles in the United States.
politically, the society was highly egalitarian; a status achieved without the influence of feminism.
The greatest value of the democratic example is its demonstration of a form of social organization that is egalitarian and based on liberty.
Although most early hunter-gatherer societies are far from our modern ideal of egalitarian societies, with some societies even having a measure of sexual inequality, they are generally free of the severe prejudice and institutional discrimination that exists in more complex societies.
The late Stone Age in Europe, for example, is often known as the "egalitarian palaeolithic".
Although the ancients envisioned Zeus, Apollo, and other major deities as being visibly male, it is now known that they were in fact egalitarian in their views of both gender and sexuality.
The Age of Enlightenment (17th-century Europe) was a time of social and scientific change.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'odium'.
While the majority of humans in most preindustrial societies are largely egalitarian, that is, they have no real differences in wealth (such as money or property) and power (such as authority or influence).
The fact that hunter-gatherer tribes still exist today and are generally quite egalitarian suggests that, for most of our history, humans lived in such societies.
Much of the African way of life in the region was harder, more egalitarian and bound to the land.
In the eighteenth century there was much discussion on the ideals of liberty and equality.
The Spanish constitution is unusually egalitarian for a country whose language, culture and history are not closely associated with that of any major power.
Another important factor in the resistance to British rule was that many of the new immigrants, such as the Huguenots, did not accept the privileged place that Protestants held in Irish society.
Unsurprisingly, the Egalitarian philosophy was very popular among the guardians and other citizens who were part of the working class.
However, a Catholic Egalitarian intellectual movement soon opened at Stonyhurst College.


#elucidate

Professor: The most important was the dramatic increase in literacy rates that allowed the mass media such as newspapers to educate and elucidate the ordinary citizen as to what was really happening on the other side of the world.
The main thing that econometricians attempt to do is to elucidate
Although its position was never very secure, by the 16th century the Ming army had managed to repel the invaders and even go on the offensive.
Although it was not his intention, Weber's theory ended up elucidating the growing division between mental
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "monopolize".
One of the most famous attempts to elucidate was that by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck.
Professor: The whole point of this class is to help you with your ability.
But the only way to properly elucidate a chemical reaction is to carry out a controlled experiment.
The word ‘human' has been used to refer to a member of the species "Homo sapiens", to which you and I belong.
The historian's job is to illuminate the past,and this is particularly important when a particular event or period of history is surrounded by myth.
The evidence provided by the DNA studies is clear and fairly convincing; it elucidates a historical truth.
The documents, photographs and recordings of witnesses' testimony are certainly welcome, but family histories often lack the sort of information genealogists like to collect, like medical details and anecdotes about great-great-great-grandfather's service in the Civil
Mendel's work on heredity, which was rediscovered in 1900, does not explain the mechanisms of heredity.
To show that such mechanisms are involved not only in human but also in other living systems and how we can use them to elucidate scientific questions.
The purpose of writing history is to elucidate the past and give readers knowledge of it.
The topic was slightly more complicated than what he was used to, and he couldn't elucidate its details without the use of complex jargon.
"Can you elucidate what you mean by this example?"
The first chapter of the book "How to Write a Winning Essay" illuminates some of the tricks that the best writers use when composing their works.
The discovery of bacteria under a microscope in 1676 by Robert Hooke did not have much immediate effect, but it did begin people thinking about the existence of microorganisms and helped others, such as Antonie van Leeuwenhoek who made
Friedrich Hayek, a Nobel prize-winning economist who wrote "The Road to Serfdom" (1944), elucidated the threat to individual freedom posed by central planning.
Your use of the word "elucidate" shows a nice understanding of the root meaning of the word.
Professor: The main purpose of the mock trials is not simply for the students to learn about a particular legal concept.
Gaselee's study of the 1348 plague helped to elucidate the mechanism of transmission of this killer disease.
'Elucidate', in the sense of explaining the truth, is what historians attempt to do.
The section on the law helps elucidate the legal issues raised by advances in medicine, especially reproductive technology.
The intention of the course is to elucidate the importance of nutrition in the broadest sense.
The prosecution requested that the witness be allowed to elucidate some of the imprecise questions that the defense counsel had asked.
A lucid dream is any dream in which the person feels that they are aware that they are dreaming while the dream is happening.
Professor: ‘If you are drawn to unraveling the mind, London is the best place in the world to work.'
It is true that in the short term, the new theories about a flat, circular Earth elucidated by the ancient Greeks and Romans were forgotten, then reinvented centuries later.
In biology, biochemists use chemical methods for the elucidation of metabolic pathways, proteins and other biochemical substances.
It was he who first elucidated the relationship between the flow of electricity and chemical reactions, a fundamental achievement that later lead to the invention of the light bulb.
We frankly don't know the details of how this all came about, but I can try to elucidate the process for you.
The extinction of the dinosaurs was first elucidated by the late American Museum of Natural History palaeontologists, Bruce M. Flemming.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elucidate'.
David Starkey's speech has elucidated the long-standing debate between pro-Euro and anti-Euro factions.
"We need to elucidate the nature of the chemical processes involved," she said.
The 16th-century astronomer wanted to elucidate the motions of the planets to the level where the effects due to the actual motions of the planets around the Sun could be separated out from the combined effects of the Earth revolving about the Sun and vice
The Jewish revolt against the Roman Empire was a major event in human history, which helped influence the spread of Christianity and elucidate Judaism's major theological controversies.
In this way, he tried to keep Church teaching central and to clarify and elucidate what he saw as the genuine core of Christianity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "laudable".
A step-by-step explanation of the theory would serve to elucidate it.
The ability to identify the dangers faced in battle and giving orders that eliminate or alleviate them is the most important skill a military leader can have.
Later thinkers tried to clarify and elucidate his theories but a lot of these were too confused or too abstract to be of any use.
Victorian novelists have been much criticized for not discussing social issues and for ignoring the hardships of the working class.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'empirical'.
'For this reason, we are hard put to elucidate the story of the so-called missing link between man and the lower animals.'
Professor: The government has made a number of decisions that while they may have had some popular appeal at the time, have since been shown to have had many negative side effects.
The book's discussion of genetics does a good job of elucidating the special case of the eye and how natural selection most likely played a role in its development.
The purpose of the course is to elaborate on the causes of the First World War.
The purpose of chapter six is to elucidate some of these mechanisms and why the brain is organized the way it is.
However, in the twentieth century a new form of energy was discovered that would in time elucidate and entirely new branch of science.
The following books should help you elucidate your understanding of the topic.
Pinker wishes to elucidate the many ways that language helps us think and understand, rather than just communicate.
The king tried to elucidate the situation for his foreign visitors.
Professor: The work by the German-born astronomer Galileo Galilei (1564-1642) helped elucidate the heliocentric theory of the solar system.
Billingsgate Fish Market was a small, rectangular, open-air market in London where Billingsgate merchants sold fish and marine goods from the 17th century until the beginning of the 20th century.
The discussion follows up on a lecture given by the theologian, but it fails to elucidate many of the questions you had.
Religious laws have often been used to elucidate moral truths; for example the tale of George and the Dragon elucidates the moral that one should be courageous in defending the honour of one's homeland.
Dawkins' book on the gene-centric view of evolution is widely considered to have elucidated this process in a way that is accessible for the general reader.
The situation rapidly deteriorated until a state of chaos ensued, and the environment became so hallucinatory that people couldn't prepare their food or find clean water.
Elucidating the nature of high-temperature superconductors and formulating a theory that binds them together remains one of physics' greatest challenges.
The exact nature of these forces isn't clear, but a new theory has come out that tries to elucidate how they might work.
Professor: To elucidate the nature of thrones, I will first explain a little bit about electrons.
One role of the state is to protect land ownership, and the chartering of corporations allows for private ownership of land. This allows people to buy and sell land with the guarantee that the future owner won't be able to kick them off it.
Some studies on the human genome should help to elucidate the relationship between different types of humans, such as Neanderthals and modern humans.
Intellectuals in the universities and the Church tried to elucidate and defend the doctrine but never succeeded in effectively doing so.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elucidate'.
Medical practitioners at the time relied mainly on non-mechanical tools, such as the pulse, bloodletting and purging, and a few chemical remedies including the use of opium.
In 1874, it was used to elucidate the ring shape of the cutting enzyme.
The purpose of the new body was to elucidate international law relating to wartime offences, such as the use of illegal weapons.
Einstein's theory of relativity has long been considered a landmark in the development of physics, and has also been used as a basis for much of our understanding of space flight and astronomy.
Word experts argue that the word 'literally' doesn't mean 'figuratively', but rather that the event described is happening in reality.
The awareness that viruses cause disease has elucidated the methods of basic medical research.
The treaty has long been considered an attempt to elucidate the differing views of National Socialism and Fascism.
It is the purpose of this book to elucidate the issues that have bedevilled our modern understanding of the French Revolution, and in the process we shall be questioning many things that have been taken for granted.
One of the goals of the book, "The Descent of Man", was to elucidate human development and evolution.
During the 19th century many European countries fought to clarify their increasingly ambiguous colonial holdings.
The reason you're having such a hard time is that these words don't mean what the people who wrote your textbook thinks they mean. Let's look at a few examples.
Carl's use of sarcasm to elucidate his opponent's poor reasoning is quite amusing.
The aim of this paper is to elucidate the nature of the relationship between literacy and social class in Victorian England.
The main purpose of the speech was to elucidate the main points of his economic reform program.
The elegant essays in the book, while not attempting to pinpoint an exact solution, did at least succeed in elucidating the complexities of the problem.
The phenomenon of lightning has been known since the beginning of history but the scientific principles behind it were not elucidated until the twentieth century.
He is a leading expert in the field of old paper chemistry and has published extensively in an attempt to elucidate the process.
"The importance of the computer is that it allows us to ask new questions which would otherwise be impossible to answer", Professor Norvig once elucidated.
Stealing ideas without crediting the source is poor scholarship and does nothing to elucidate the reader.
His speech should have elucidated the issues that concerned most people in the nation.
It is the task of the historian to elucidate the why and how of historical events.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'liberation'.
The majority of ancient people did not have a written language. Such societies are known as preliterate societies.
One of the main purposes of his painting was to elucidate the concept of human liberty which he knew to be unique to man among the creatures of Earth.
His theory is not intended to elucidate events of the past, but instead is stated in such a way that it makes predictions about future events.
The theories of Einstein have elucidated our understanding of the relationship between space, time and matter.
I wanted to elucidate on the relationship between ancient religion and early science.
The purpose of the socialist movement is to improve the conditions in which the working class lives, which includes reducing the length of the work day, increasing wages and health and safety standards.
The Jacksonian Presidents, such as John Quincy Adams, used the principles of Jacksonian Democracy to elucidate the need to nullify the Indian Removal Act.
Professor: Even for those who accepted the idea that the comet could have caused the extinction, there was still plenty of disagreement about the exact mechanism.
"The Federal Reserve and Its Enemies" was written during the Progressive Era, a period of intense scrutiny into the way government worked, and "The Federal Reserve and Its Enemies"
The laws were brought in to elucidate the relationship between the government and the press.


#engender

The image of women as feeble, anemic and morally weak beings in need of male protection and responsible for the downfall of man engendered an increasingly negative attitude towards women during the Victorian period.
Professor: New ideologies such as Communism were engendering violence on a completely different scale from the Protestant-Catholic hatred in Ireland.
"The 1960's counter culture movement engendered a wave of social reforms that continue to benefit ordinary people in the US and elsewhere today."
The move from the personal to the impersonal, from rule of man to rule of law, from tyranny to equality is a journey engendered by the very nature of money itself.
As the trial Judge said, Johnson's insults and defiance towards the court and prisoners engendered considerable animosity in some of his less stable fellows.
It is a quite legitimate concern that the new rules may engender unexpected consequences and have much graver significance for society.
Many issues in politics engender a great deal of controversy.
The Bill of Rights in the United States Constitution as given engender
Luckily, the machine moving slowly down the street at an angle had "engendered" no panic.
The American and French revolutions of the late 18th century both engendered a new climate of thought that championed ideals such as liberty, equality and fraternity.
"A lot of men do suffer from male role-conflict," she says, "It's caused by our society
While men don't have periods they do have analogous hormone releases due to the fact that women as the 'gatekeepers' of human reproduction, have had to be the 'selective species'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "non-".
"Of events, developments, or conditions that engender a particular feeling, attitude, or response in someone.
Differences in social status can often engender feelings of mistrust and even hatred between different groups.
The feeling generated by the ceremony was intimate and profound.
Many new groups of colonists were unhappy with British rule--taxation without any true representation being among the major complaints--and this would eventually engender the American Revolution.
The immense increase in the use of coal, gas, and oil during the industrial revolution had engendered a belief that an ever-increasing amount of fossil fuel would always be readily available.
It was during the Enlightenment that historiography became less about proving the greatness of one's nation and more about trying to establish facts about the past.
One of the major causes of the spread of the slavery in Africa was the Europeans' need for resources. In many areas there were no such resources, so slave traders engendered a supply by capturing Africans and making them slaves.
The new American nation was born in an atmosphere of optimism and hope for the future.
"Barracuda" is a metaphor for a powerful woman who will "engender great riches and success over the masses".
The first is the "despot" theory, which suggests that Egyptian civilization was controlled by a small group of men through violence and force.
The government's decision to cut health services in order to engender a new nuclear submarine has caused an uproar among the population, especially among elderly people.
The very idea of family entails a monetary, engendering dynamic that, when lacking, destroys the idea of marriage.
The lack of legal protection for women in society has engendered a climate in which many men feel themselves free to harass and assault any woman.
Too much power over a prolonged period of time can engender a loss of compassion.
Some late-eighteenth and early-nineteenth-century writers employed the language of women's "inequality" to argue that women were by nature intended to obey men.
SIGNIFICANT WORD:
Traditionally, feminists have been concerned with eliminating or preventing sexism and gender stereotypes.
The computer industry created jobs that didn't exist before, and it engendered whole new industries, such as software.
One factor that engenders this type of attitude is a group's feeling of relative deprivation.
While education on its own cannot engender progressive ideas in a society, it can certainly allow the expression of such ideas when they occur.
In the nineteenth century, capitalism began to engender a new class of people, the industrial working class.
Both the early American settlers and the Native Americans unwittingly engendered each other's myths.
The new movement engendered much criticism from traditional family members.
The Victorian social and economic reformer campaigned to eliminate child labor, women's illiteracy and engender a spirit of independence among the working classes.
The legal rights of married women have been broadly interpreted as preventing them from being obligated to testify against their husbands.
It is a curious fact that when the British Empire was at the height of its power and glory, there was considerable unease and apprehension in the upper classes about its future.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "dilemma".
The greatest dilemma in US military history was whether or not to use newly developed atomic weapons against an enemy.
The rising energy demand of the Industrial Revolution engendered a search for new and more efficient sources of power
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'alliance'.
Haydn's "Farewell" Symphony in the final movement, which is subtitled "The Schoolmaster," was written to be read by a music-loving count who was leaving his home for a diplomatic post.
The massive destruction caused by the war was one of the main factors that ultimately engender the conflict.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "criticize".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'prerequisite'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'frenzy'.
Dependency can engender fear and a sense of powerlessness.
One of the factors that would most likely engender a loyalty within a group is religion.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'engender'.
Although the gender gap has narrowed in recent years, a salary difference still engenders a great deal of debate.
The fight for women's rights was an important step on the way to engender democracy in other political and social areas.
The post-modernist argument that the objects of knowledge can only be known through the language used to describe them, not to mention the fact that this language can only describe but not prescribe, engender a high degree of skepticism.
It is easy to blame society for our social problems, but the actual problem often lies with the individual. Thus, it is important to encourage people to think more and blame others less.
Although Hooke's theory of gravitation was incorrect, it engendered a great deal of further research into the nature of gravity.
The post-modernist movement in both art and architecture has greatly increased public awareness of these people who until recently had been ignored by the history books.
The fear engendered by the attack caused the population to support major changes in government policy.
You step away from your desk and are called up to explain. You've never thought about it this much before, but you guess its something like a stimulation that causes an emotion to arise.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'architecture'.
Soon, he was a personal friend of some of the British architects, and his career took off from there.
The industrial revolution and the scientific developments it engendered has had a detrimental effect on the planet.
The Church of England was politically weakened by the fact that it told the king what to do while concurrently engendering a climate in which religious dissent could flourish.
Having been brought up in a middle-class family that did not display overt displays of affection, he was ill-prepared to be a parent and didn't know how to engage with his children.
The most popular solution to this problem was the attempt to engender a feeling of nationalism in the people.
The Russian aristocracy had lost all its power, which meant that it could no longer keep the middle classes in their place by granting or withdrawing aristocratic titles.
A typical nineteenth-century sexist, he believed that women were not only mentally but also physically inferior to men. He claimed that it was the task of women to engender, that is to say educate, the next generation of Germans.
One of the findings of the Church's Second Vatican Council in the 1960s was that religious instruction should no longer be an excuse for denigrating other faiths and that there should be no more talk about how other religions were false and doomed
The ancient cultures had certain events that engendered a particular form of community.
Many philosophers at the time believed that women's sole role in life was to engender children.
The proposed bill was intended to engender a feeling of patriotism in young schoolchildren.
The pogroms, and the social climate they engendered, led to a second exodus of Jews from Eastern Europe at the turn of the 20th century.
Finding such a theory was obviously going to engender controversy.
The trial aroused both anger and opposition, engendering a backlash against the company that distributed Lennex.
Professor: During the war women were forced to take up many of the jobs that men had left, a move that engendered much conflict and controversy at the time.
The authors suggest that these findings engender more study of the relationship between the genetic and epigenetic factors involved in language acquisition.
As you leave class, you think to yourself how you have learned a little about early modern Europe, but were still no closer to your goal of finding out more about the Count.
In seventeenth-century England, women were severely limited in terms of legal and social rights, a situation which had largely been introduced during the Norman conquest and then further enhanced during the Middle Ages.
During the French Revolution, the various changes in society somehow engendered a new and different way of looking at life.
The feeling of national superiority engendered by the teaching of history can blind us to the nation's flaws.
"No law or edict can engender a willing obedience except through fear of punishment."
The beginning of the process, or the quality that makes something possible.
What eighteenth-century American patriots such as Thomas Paine and Thomas Jefferson had done was to engender a spirit of rebellion among the colonists.
The new women who entered the workforce in the United States during World War II engendered a transformation in gender roles in American society.
The women's movement has recently attempted to engender a greater awareness of feminist issues in schools.
The controversy surrounding the Civil Rights Movement in the nineteen-fifties and sixties was one of the forces that engendered a change in the way history was taught in schools.
One of the purposes of the Age of Exploration was to engender friendly competition between European governments.
In keeping with the theories of the eighteenth-century philosopher Jeremy Bentham, they wanted to make prisons more efficient, in order to prevent crime from engendering.
Little is known about the life of Mary Wollstonecraft; when her parents died she was left penniless and by the time she died, seven years after the publication of this book, her works had been out of print for years and only
In Indian culture, the mother is revered and viewed as sacred, whereas the father is not. As a result, women are given preferential treatment as mothers are
It was while serving as lieutenant governor that Green lost his sight and, unable to carry out his duties, resigned. His time as lieutenant governor engendered in him a dislike of politics.
The main reason why so little treatment was given to the poor in this period was the widespread belief that they were responsible for their own plight, and that donations to help them would only engender more of the same dependency.
One of the important causes of the Civil War was the dispute over the issue of slavery. Not only did this institution engender other issues such as suffrage and state rights, but it also threatened to split the country in two.
The act of physical violence toward a child that is carried out purposefully to cause the child some sort of trauma is called abuse.
During the writing of the constitution, the Founding Fathers wanted to detirmine whether a Bill of Rights was needed engender a feeling of support for the government
The enormous destruction caused by the Second World War engendered a wave of revulsion against war in Europe.
A man named Martin Luther offered a different explanation, incurring the wrath of the Catholic Church in the process. He said they were the work of the devil, engendering terror and superstition in an otherwise optimistic Christian society.
The war also engendered a spirit of patriotism and nationalism, which in turn strengthened the feeling of being part of a larger community or nation.
The peasants' need for land thus engendered a class system, since only the rich could own land due to the high cost and limited supply.
It was the belief that kingship, rather than being divinely appointed, had been invented by human beings in earliest times to engender feelings of loyalty.
Victorian society was characterized by rigid hierarchy and this social structure engendered a culture of deference.
The lack of respect for women that allows them to be beaten and killed for transgressions real or imaginary and the lack of control over their own lives engender a deep such alienation that suicide must be a better option.
The Middle Ages saw the rise of feudalism and the decline of the Roman Empire. Both developments engendered a sense of uncertainty in Europeans.


#enmity

The cold war which existed between the United States and the USSR represented the enmity between capitalism and communism.
The Sunni and Shia branches of Islam havefought enmity for over a thousand years.
The enmity between the two Eighteenth-century arch enemies spilled over into a naval battle in 1759.
This behavior of leading his people to unsettled land and establishing enmity with the natives was repeated until there was no more unsettled land.
The long-standing historical enmity between the two nations erupted into war when the border towns of Merom and Glascow were simultaneously attacked by a combination of airborne troops and amphibious vehicles.
It was the first time the two churches had exchanged a bishop since the 1054 schism that occurred during the Investiture Controversy when Pope Leo IX and Archbishop Anselm of Canterbury, after being persecuted by King William II, declared en
The long-standing enmity between the two tribes sometimes exploded into violence, as it did recently in the wake of Palestine's declaration of statehood.
The two most powerful 18th-century European rulers had an enmity that spanned decades.
The hostility between the USA and the USSR during the Cold War, and the enmity between Queens basketball fans and those of their crosstown rivals, St. John's.
The English people held the Hanoverians and the British monarchs, who ascended to the throne in 1714 at the end of the Stuart reign, in enmity.
The idea of an ill-defined and eternally lasting enmity between two peoples is in France a general principle, from which they by no means wish to depart.
In these years his enmity for Sulla grew and he would accept nothing except direct confrontation.
The Hundred Years' War between France and England was an enduring enmity between the two countries.
I forgot to mention that the countess was also instrumental in creating and encouraging the enmity between her adopted son and his younger brother.
Already the long war between Rome and Carthage had become a prime source of enmity between the two
His enmity towards his old friend Chatsworth Llewelenna was legendary.
The two groups would maintain their enmity for decades, with neither side making much headway.
After their enmity ended in 1648 with the Peace of Westphalia, there were more than 250 years of peace between the UK and France.
At that time there was no love lost between the two groups and they harbored an active enmity for each other.
The treaty between England and Spain was written with the same pen that had drafted the treaty that ended the previous war, the War of the Spanish Succession.
The enmity between France and Great Britain was slowly diminishing during the time leading up to the War of 1812.
The case of the relationship between the nation-states of France and Germany is very instructive.
The great enmity between the Houses of Lancaster and York which was the cause of strife within England during the middle ages.
There was some enmity between the aristocracy and the knights, which manifested itself in objections to the awarding of money and land to them.
The relationship between the US and the USSR during the cold war was one of considerable tension, suspicion, and enmity.
The other main cause of the Second World War was German enmity towards Russia, which dated back to the defeat of the German Empire in 1918.
One of the causes of the war was a growing enmity between French Emperor Napoleon III and Prussian Prime Minister Otto von Bismarck.
The American Civil War of 1861-1865 was a struggle between the Northern and Southern states of America.
Owing to past enmities between the two of them, he couldn't be a character witness for her.
The antagonism between the two nations goes back to the nineteenth century when tensions over border disputes flared up.
The second half of the book traces the history of enmity between the two nations, from its origin in the Vietnam War to its present status as hinted at in the depiction of an attack on American soil in the film "Black Hawk Down".
The enmity between the two countries was finally settled in 1939 when both sides decided to settle the argument with bullets rather than words.
The two countries lived in enmity for centuries, the origins of which went back to the Norman invasion of England.
Your own home is filled with people who are united by nothing except their enmity for you.
The two senators' enmity for each other was unsurpassed, even among the most bitter of rivals.
English: The two enemies considered each other with suspicion.
The main cause of the English enmity toward Dutch was the continuous battle between them for dominance of sea trade
"The enmity between the two races was depicted primarily in their respective stereotypes".
The enmity between the two tribes in the region dated back centuries.
Unresolved enmity between nations can disrupt the economy as seen with American trade restrictions on Iran.
Many long-standing enmities between different tribes, chiefdoms and warlords made the possibility of a unified government extremely difficult.
The reasons for the animosity between the two governments is unclear; presumably, there are many complex social and economic factors at play.
The relationship between the papacy and the Holy Roman Emperor was one of enmity, as it was based on mutual distrust.
The animosity between the United States and Iraq began in earnest in October of 1964 when Kuwait refused to renew a contract to US-based multinational oil companies.
The hostility and enmity between the Protestant Netherlands and Catholic Spain provided the political backdrop for much of his writing.
After the Prussian Army severely defeated Austria in the Battle of Königgrätz, Austria had a bitter enmity towards Prussia and would later ally itself with the French Empire during the Franco-Prussian War.
The enmity between the Hatfields and McCoys in the United States is legendary.
But at the same time he was personally fond of her and there was a bond of mutual respect and even enmity.
The relationship between the United States and Great Britain is one of the closest - yet most strained - friendships in history,
And even though there was a natural enmity between the two nations, they both needed each other.
The enmities between Spain and England were the result of two factors: firstly the enmity between Spain and England, which had been ongoing for centuries, and secondly the fact that both countries were Catholic and Ferdinand was concerned that, as
The one exception to this rule were the various Muslim dynasties such as the Ottomans and the Mughals who ruled over large parts of what are now Russia and India.
Professor: The Norman Conquest of 1066 created an enmity between the English and the Normans that lasted for centuries.
The relationship between the two countries has been strained by enmity dating back to the brief war between the two nations in 1969.
The English had long-standing cultural and religious differences with the Scots, and Anglo-Scottish relations were frequently strained by the enmity caused by the rise of the House of Stewart.
In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the Rojava region of Iraq was considered an historical center of Sunni Islam, and this was a cause of enmity between it and the bordering areas.
The 1066 battle of Hastings in England, between the defenders of the Anglo-Saxon King Harold and the invading Norman army, resulted in a bloody enmity between these two groups of people.
The winter of 1917-18 was notable for its bitterly cold temperatures in Europe, and the conflict between the Germans and British on the Western front, a battle of enmity that had started four years earlier, intensified.
The Hundred Years' War between England and France was a long struggle filled with enmity and power struggles.
Franklin D. Roosevelt and Adolf Hitler were leaders of two sides in the most destructive enmity of the twentieth century, World War II, which lead to the death of millions.
The two sides had developed an enmity dating back to the previous century,
However, despite the disappearance of Communism as an enemy it refuses to disappear as a deeply-felt enmity in the minds of many intellectuals.
The two groups had an ancient history of bitter enmity.
It seems likely that the "Gunpowder Empire" saw the HSE's cutting-edge research as representing an old enmity, and wanted to destroy it.
The visit comes at a time when tensions between the two countries are high because of enmity between their respective leaders.
The central tragedy of the story is Iago's enmity towards Othello; indeed it is this enmity that drives the play.
Sunni and Shia belong to the same religion but with different belief systems, making them prime candidates for enmity.
The international feelings of friendship and enmity were reflected in the formal exchange of ambassadors.
The situation became more serious when people openly began to state their hatred for the members of the other team.
Soon after World War I, Woodrow Wilson experienced a great rise in popularity due to his decision to get America involved in the war and the policies he implemented to keep international tensions from arising.
The Russian-American relations that the twentieth century have been marred by a deep-seated mutual enmity.
Many enmities in the region have roots that predate the Roman Empire.
They were driven apart partly by their different religions and partly by the centuries of mutual enmity toward each other.
Although they had no contact, there was a great deal of enmity between these two states because the leadership in both countries declared each other to be 'usurpers'.
The relation between the Colonies and England grew increasingly enmity.
The Hundred Years' War was a struggle for power and influence between the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of France primarily in the 14th century.
The two powers have strong diplomatic ties, but there is a long history of anti-Russian enmity in the region.
The struggle between the ancient Egyptians and the inhabitants of modern-day Israel has lasted more than 3,000 years, one of the longest running sources of enmity in history.
The state of Israel and the Arab nations are bitter, traditional enemies.
The USA and the USSR had been enemies since the end of World War II, though in the Cold War that had little effect on ordinary citizens.
True, the German people and the French people have a long history of animosity, even enmity, but that doesn't preclude the possibility that they can live together in a pan-national alliance.
The strong enmity between the two competitors has been well-documented.
In the second decade of war, troops were able to fight the opposing army, and there was less mutual raiding, and more concentration on the actual enemy.
The enmity between the two tribes in the area was so great that any child born in the village would kill any child born in the other village.
The enmity between the two terms goes back to before the Norman Conquest, William I of England was already at war with the king of France.
The 1916 Easter Rising in Ireland, which led to the Irish War of Independence, was a conflict between British and Irish Republican forces.
The bloodiest war in American history was fought between 1861 and 1865 and is popularly known as the American Civil War and had its origin in the enmities between the North and South.
The French and British have had a long-standing enmity. The two countries are traditional enemies.
There was great enmity between the two tribes.
Most periods of enmity quickly degenerated into bloody battles.
It is possible that the anger of the Islamists resulted from the enmity between the two religions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'quiescence'.
The situation has worsened and is showing no signs of improving. The present uneasy calm exists primarily because the opposing sides are wary of each other.
The two groups had a long-lasting animosity toward each other.
The two nations have a long history of bitter enmity.
The two nations have a common language but more than a thousand years of mistrust, enmity and bloodshed divides them.
The professor thanks you for your co-operation and tells you that someone will be with you shortly to show you out of the building.
The professor looks up from his book he seems surprised that you managed to pick some hard words.
You then ask the professor for a sentence that contains the word "aspect".


#entrenched

The entrenched culture of elitism that the universities in Britain are accused of fostering appears to be slowly changing.
The Thirty Years' War was a 17th-century religious battle fought primarily in central Europe. Although it was finally settled, the war devastated entire regions and entrenched hostility between Protestants and Catholics.
The entrenched New Age social and religious order collapsed as the nuclear attacks took out the major cities and the power grids.
The rulers of the Indian subcontinent had been initially shocked by the lightning speed of the Mongol cavalry but they swiftly adapted to their style of warfare and became entrenched in their cities.
The inhabitants of the black hills are an entrenched people, full of secrets. They rarely show themselves to outsiders.
The dictator of the country had been entrenched for decades.
The British hold on India had become deeply entrenched by the time Queen Victoria ascended to the throne in 1837.
Many of the older teachers were entrenched in their old ways and resistant to change.
The Boers entrenched themselves in the hills and would not be moved.
The terrorists had become so entrenched in the western part of the city that the government had no choice but to send in troops.
The entrenched nature of the fighting on the Western Front during World War I was extremely destructive and largely futile.
The communist war on religion is just as entrenched and violent as any other front of the Cold War.
The Northern army's defense of the city, which involved retreating to the wall and firing at the enemy from behind it, made it hard for the Confederacy to take Washington.
The Nationalist Government was entrenched in Shanghai, and the Imperial Japanese Army were preparing to launch a siege on it.
It was obvious that the government in general, and certainly Pelosi in particular, was entrenched in their position.
Moreover, it was entrenched in thousands of years of religious and social traditions.
These ideas were then entrenched in the newly emerging universities, increasingly controlled by medieval Church thinkers.
Feminist ideas and movements have been entrenched in American society since the 1920s.
The men entrenched at the top of the hill would be extremely difficult to dislodge.
And the military-industrial complex is so entrenched that it could not be stopped by even a president as powerful as Kennedy.
However, once entrenched, many of the new ideas and ways of Britain remained unchanged for centuries.
Your entrenched position gave you the advantage.
The Christian faith in the United States was entrenched by the First Amendment.
The entrenched and restrictive system of classifies was not reformed until the Second World War.
The Anabaptists' social and religious views made them non-conformists, and so they were often jailed or exiled in early modern Europe.
It is ironic that some of the most entrenched and uncompromising nationalists were those who had previously fought for Irish independence from Britain.
The British had an old, colonial empire and a lot of them were entrenched in their views.
The entrenched and experienced workforce that the company had hired had been steadily dropping hints about retirement for years.
The religious situation was extremely complex, with Catholicism entrenched in much of western Europe.
The battlefields of the Civil War proved to be a breeding ground for infectious public health problems, with both North and South suffering from poor hygiene and entrenched camp conditions.
The fortifications of the city, such as bastions and ramparts formed their own separate defense system inside the city and were particularly entrenched in this area.
In the eighteenth century, Pirates were entrenched in Madagascar, but they ultimately lost power.
The war became increasingly unpopular and in early 1917 the U.S. entered it, but by that time it was entrenched into one of the bloodiest conflicts that the world had ever seen.
The military junta had been in power for over a decade, and was still entrenched despite increasing civil unrest.
While some women were able to become doctors or even university professors, most remained impoverished nurses or maids, entrenched in their socially inferior positions.
Lead poisoning may have been rampant among them, because the soldiers living in the fort had been shooting their muskets for days to quiet the enemy.
Although the trench system was helpful in keeping soldiers out of the range of each other's rifles and shellfire, it became an entrenched battleground with little mobility.
However, entrenched in his mind was the story of a boy from a poor family who had made good.
The entrenched and mountainous borders of the country made invasion extremely difficult.
The entrenched institutions of the Old Regime, which had survived an inner and outer war, were destroyed in a moment.
The Marxist idea of class conflict was entrenched in the works of German philosophers like Kant and Hegel.
While the Union generals had fought during the Civil War and knew the procedures that needed to be followed to protect entrenched troops, Buell was unsure of himself.
The Catholic Church became entrenched in Irish society and continues to be a powerful influence on the country today.
"The communist governments of the Eastern Bloc were entrenched."
The American Civil War involved an entrenched struggle between a deeply divided status quo
However, entrenched beliefs about the need for order and authority were deeply ingrained in the human mind.
The Vietcong proved to be an entrenched guerrilla force, one that American soldiers were not trained to fight.
The division of the Church into two new and frankly mutually antagonistic Churches entrenched this split.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'segregation'.
The once-captive nations gradually became entrenched in their ways and less accepting of suggestions from the home country,
Well, it was even before the Nazis came to power. The Communists had become heavily entrenched in parts of Germany, and many people didn't like that.
The power of the nobility in the Eastern Roman Empire, entrenched since Roman times, remained secure over the populace.
Nazi Germany was entrenched in its position opposing the presence of Jews in any form within the Reich.
The US had been entrenched in the Vietnam War for nearly four years at that point.
The entrenched ideology of old Britain, the country's huge wealth and the power of old institutions like the Church were contributing factors.
The French soldiers were entrenched in the bridgehead and the Germans couldn't shift them.
The treaty of 1871 had entrenched Prussia's position as the most powerful state in central Europe.
The allies were trying to break the stalemate and so brought up heavy artillery but it was soon clear that they were still too far away to provide effective enplacement, and the pioneers they sent forward to try to dig trenches at the foot of
The medieval attitude of despising merchants and trade remained entrenched, so the guilds' control of commerce prevented the startup of new businesses.
The South's economy was becoming increasingly entrenched in a system of plantations
Professor: The reasons for the fall of the Empire are still hotly debated by politicians and historians, but there is one theory that has managed to become relatively entrenched in popular consciousness.
The Nazis tried to break the Allies' resistance by heavily bombing cities such as London, which were politically and militarily entrenched in their efforts against the Nazis.
The entrenched powers were successful in preventing any change to the status quo of the League.
The French were entrenched in Belgium, and the Germans tried to push them out.
But Prussia was a relatively new state with an ancient and highly entrenched absolute monarchy.
The reason the Ottoman Empire was so entrenched in the region, was that it ensured a certain amount of stability as well as protection from outside attack.
The defenders of the City were deeply entrenched and well supplied, they could hold out for months.
It wasn't until World War I that machine guns and entrenched positions became a major factor in warfare.
The strongly entrenched beliefs in biology were severely threatened by the new findings of molecular biology
The World War II ambush of the Russian army was one of the greatest military successes of the Romanov family, and contributed greatly to their ongoing conflict with other noble families for control of Russia.
However, the entrenched cultural attitudes against suicide bombings, especially against civilians, will probably not change for some time.
The entrenched industries and companies with too much to lose from change were the main opponents of environmental restrictions.
The Spaniards were firmly entrenched in the territory and had themselves already suffered considerable losses.
The traditions of the established church were so entrenched in the life of the nation, while at the same time the Church was so impoverished, that it was impossible to think of altering this situation.
During the 1950s, Communist forces became entrenched in Korea, Vietnam and China.
Guns were becoming more commonplace, entrenched in the Crimean War and especially during the American Civil War.
The dictator was entrenched in his capital, and any military attempts to remove him would have led to the destabilization of an already fragile region.
The memory of the Terror still entrenched in France, many of the country's populace was strongly opposed to intervention.
The inequity of the Depression strengthened support for the Nazis, a fact which would contribute to making WWII a global conflict, and ensuring the entrenchment of the status quo powers of the time, as well as establishing new ones.
Traditionally, monarchies are far more entrenched than dictatorships.
Those settlers who remained in the area which became modern-day England were especially entrenched in their views.
The Cambodian government has been ruthless in its attempts to break the back of the rebel movement, which is heavily entrenched in the countryside.
Some entrenched bureaucrats in New Zealand believe the new regulations should not apply to them.
The improvement of weapons during the war made a battle death toll that was huge by earlier standards but still not near what it could be.
However nothing was done to solve this problem because of the entrenched bureaucracy.
The entrenched military rule of General Suharto was protected by the United States.
In the decades after the Civil War, popular music underwent immense change. The minstrel shows, a form of music that relied on blackface and stereotyping Africans, was replaced by a new genre called the blues.
The French held the city during the war, and while they were forced to withdraw, they left behind trained fighters to form a bastion against any invading force, these entrenched fighters have managed to resist every single attack and are still in control of the
The French forces were more entrenched in the region than anyone had suspected.
The war developed into one of the most entrenched in Afghan history, where trench warfare from World War One and the Vietnam War were repeated on the Afghan plains.
In the last two decades, powerful new drugs have helped to cut the death toll, but many of those who survive are left physically or mentally debilitated for life, with entrenched physical or mental damage.
The Bani Saud were entrenched in Riyadh and the Ottomans could no longer defend their claim over the region.
And the failure of any government to maintain social order in these areas meant that crime was allowed to become entrenched in certain parts of the city.
The Austrian chief of general staff was a firm believer in the value of entrenched positions and had made sure there were plenty of them built in Galicia.
The issue of Apartheid in South Africa is an entrenched system that has been in place for decades.
And so the contrast between Iranian men's treatment of women and Western men's treatment of women is even more stark when it comes to divorce.
The South's traditional institutions were so entrenched that they couldn't be eliminated even by radical reconstruction.
Britain's failure to achieve her colonial goals was due to the fact that they had another war on their hands, this time with the French and Indians in North America.
The importance or success of the compromises doesn't detract from the fact that people on both sides were entrenched in their beliefs and unwilling to compromise.
The rebels' failure to breach the city walls and the increasing casualties forced them to realize that they could not take the city by overrunning it, and they fell back on their original plan of trying to besiege it into submission.


#enumerate

The evidence we have so far is not extensive, but from the little that we have managed to find, it would seem that the Aztecs were able to count, at least up to twenty.
From what has been written we can only enumerate the things he seems to have left out,
The Ten Commandments of the Bible are designed to give a general idea of the moral code that God expects people to obey.
The historian is faced with the difficult task of enumerating, or listing, objects and events in their correct sequential order.
In the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century, many of the great powers in Europe were engaged in a build-up of arms which many observers felt had an implication for war.
The experts sat around the table and tried to enumerate all the different ways the world could end.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'capacity'.
Verbal enumeration and lists are among the most important tools of argument and persuasion.
The two main types of government are a monarchy and a democracy. The monarch or king rules the country with absolute power. A democracy is the exact opposite.
The information that the inventors had come up with various ideas and theories on flight, but it was the Wright brothers who finally succeeded in inventing an aeroplane that was able to fly by using the various concepts enumerated above.
Furthermore,the Nazis also enunciated the importance of having strong birth rates as well as speaking about having a lot of children and all the benefits that both the parents and the nation would gain.
It was not until the reign of Peter the Great they began to even start keeping records, or at least attempting to.
Another important element of the Bill of Rights is that it enumerates several rights of the people but explicitly states that these are not to be interpreted as a denial of other rights retained by the people.
The Conservative Party, in power at the time, thought that all these problems stemmed from the fact that British society had become excessively permissive.
The steps John Adams took as President to enumerate the rights of citizens were less clear than those he had taken as a lawmaker.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'parliamentary'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "imply".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vanguard'.
For years, the religious traditions of the world have been trying to enumerate humanity's collective virtues.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'modern'.
The increasing industrialization of Europe in the 19th century had a great impact on the role of government. The national governments of Europe, and increasingly the smaller levels of government within those nations, were forced to take an active role in economic development.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "consequently".
The judge began to enumerate the types of evidence he would allow in the trial and those he would not.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "conclusive".
When the prisoners were asked if they had changed their minds, the result was a unanimous refusal to admit to collusion.
The conquistadors wanted to be able to enumerate and describe the many people, cultures and provinces they had discovered.
The development of a skills base among the workforce, The ability to meet future challenges, Better integration of religion with the rest of society and Enumerate four key reasons why Mary's accession was essential in replacing a largely ineffective rulership
The evidence that we have available to us strongly enumerates the fact that by the thirty-years war, Europe was a very different place than it was in 1618.
The French political philosopher Montesquieu (1689-1755) believed that the system of checks and balances were so effective in Britain that he famously wrote 'England frightens me; she has no poison, but she has the plague.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "underestimated".
The book also enumerates the perceived limitations of the traditional scientific method.
The development of the steam engine was a departure from prior technology and one that required the invention of tools to help build it that hadn't previously been needed, such as gears and other mechanisms to convert reciprocating to rotary motion.
This was clearly a mistake, as it allowed the dictator to seize power immediately after the assassination.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "The British Empire".
The British Empire began to decline, trade protection was reduced and so the period between 1873 and 1885 became known as the Long Depression.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "success".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "religion".
From a list of 4 million young Germans all those who had visited a page on the website of the "Arbeitskreis" or on any of the CDU or the CSU pages, were then electronically mail-ordered.
Some of the events that led to the collapse of the American Indian civilization included the arrival of the white man with diseases against which the Indians had no defense or immunity, and the rapid destruction of Indian's habitat as forests were cleared and animal prey was
The Berlin Conference of 1884-1885 is an example of how European countries used colonialism to control Africa, or rather its resources.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "wage".
He enumerated several reasons why his theory was correct, including
It would be impossible to enumerate all the factors that contributed to the decline in the Native American population after Europeans came to America.
The conference will enable delegates to discuss the reasons why family meals are declining and how this trend might be reversed, something which economists say has adverse implications for our society.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "outmaneuver".
In art, he is best known for his 'Dance of the Hours'; a fanciful ballet where each hour of the day had its own dance.
The British government had the power to see how much grain each farm produced, and to enforce laws requiring each farmer to grow a certain amount of grain that could be turned into alcohol to be used for a national emergency, such as war.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'miracle'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "challenge".
His career, which spanned five decades and included four Hollywood movies, has been summarized in the book "Selected Short Subjects".
In the wake of the lawlessness created by this rebellion, it has become even more dangerous to travel in this region. The towns that were not looted and burnt have had their populations murdered and imprisoned by the outlaws.
Unemployment is higher among young graduates, who have a much harder time finding work that involves using their education.
The three theories that I have enumerated are, I think, representative of the main approaches to the problem of the French defeat.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "antagonism".
The antagonism between the two over the importance of their roles was reflected in the epithets they used to describe each other.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hereditary'.
Professor:A hereditary aristocracy is one that is ruled by those who are born into power.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'parliamentary'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'distinguish'.
The steps he suggests in his paper are as follows: 1. Establish a register of students who intend to take university entrance examinations. 2. Encourage these students to attend extra classes 3. Encourage them to enroll in correspondence courses 4.
The philosopher believed that animals lack the ability to reason and hence do not possess consciousness. It follows that it would be unjustifiable to inflict suffering on animals merely for the purpose of human entertainment.
The so-called Big Five personality traits have been identified by researchers as five prominent factors that describe human personality.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideological'.
Sometime between 1095 and 1291 (when the last crusader outpost fell), Western Europeans fought off a series of invasions from Turks who had rapidly converted to the religion of Islam.
Countries can be assessed using several measures, such as health care, education, and standard of living.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'refute'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "economic".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'gatherings'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apocalypse'.
The first enumerated right is freedom of religion, which consists of the freedom to worship (or not) whatever divinity you wish.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apolitical'.
The bones include teeth from different sizes of herbivores, like hippos and pigs, which the early hominids would have hunted and eaten; a shoulder blade from a baboon, and collarbone from a grasscutter, two species
The three main types of atmospheric pollution are water pollution, air pollution and land pollution.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "contribution".
The causes of the fall of the Roman Empire have been traditionally enumerated by historians as, among others: loss of military vigor, bureaucratic inefficiency, economic deterioration, and adverse politics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "equality".
The steps involved in carrying out a statistical test can be enumerated as follows.
He wanted to avoid the atmosphere of a class, in which students are required to enumerate all the grammatical mistakes in a poorly written in a text without any guidance about what the correct usage is.
It is impossible to enumerate the many thinkers who have wrestled with this problem.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'austere'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'supplanted'.
Traditionally, people joined religious orders as teenagers and spent their lives within that order.
One of the earliest scholars to attempt to enumerate all of Shakespeare's works was librarian Peter Blount.
The protests were prompted by fears that the new tax laws would grievously encumber wage-earners, as well as the usual collection of speculators and opposition politicians eager to stir up trouble.
In order enumerate the myriad threats to humanity's existence that we face, we could start with climate change, which poses an imminent danger; some say already here.
Those are the notions that he wants you to enumerate on the midterm.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "refute".
Enlightenment philosophers refuted religion and mysticism, believing that only through science could humans find truth.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'parliament'.
A list of rights is called an enumeration.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'relatively'.
The Zulus under Shaka zulu were able to aline into huge, orderly columns of many thousand warriors.
I'm sure you'll all appreciate that even the greatest of rulers can't cover all his subjects under the shelter of his wings, so sometimes he has to delegate certain tasks to others, such as local governors.
One example is that conflicts between the Arabs and Jews, which have been ongoing primarily in the Middle East, are also religious in nature, although they are not always apparent or acknowledged as such.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'indigenous'.
Given the nature of the Ottoman Empire, the sultan had to be able to speak to his subjects in their language and the millet system encouraged this.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'interpretation'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "reconnaissance".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'deterioration'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'triumphant'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'sovereignty'.
independence was signified by the reduction of the Irish parliament to an advisory role in 1801.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'specialists'.
There is an extreme shortage of medical specialists as a result of the high human mortality rate.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reinstated'.
Our original agreement isn't going to be reinstated.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "parliamentary".
The evidence is inherent in the totality of the extant record; it does, however, enumerate twenty-eight events that are the minimum necessary for the scientific documentation of an ancient existence.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'representative'.


#equivalent

The "Chronicle of Higher Education" is an important newspaper for people who are interested in education; it discusses issues that arise in higher education and reviews recent scholarly books.
For many years, the University of Georgia's School of Social Work was the only accredited school for social work in Georgia.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'treaty'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vacillate'.
Professor: Vindication was rare, however, since not many were in a position to question the status quo.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'proliferation'.
They uncovered and seized huge amounts of money and valuables from Jews in the countries occupied by the Nazis.
In the United States, both systems coexist, but the university examinations are considered equivalent.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing ‘reviled'.
Professor: While the two models are equivalent if the gravitational force of a black hole is strong enough, they predict different things for the region immediately around the black hole.
What is the purpose of the first section of this chapter?
The instructions were too complicated for the average citizen to understand.
Our investigation has discovered no equivalent to the Shamballa Effect in any other culture.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'formulation'.
The university library closes in ten minutes!
Of course, we'd need to check this in many different societies and see if you get the same result, but that will be for another day.
Some languages contain no articles, and even the ones that do have fewer than English's.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing ‘indifference'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'evidence'.
The law of gravity is an example of a physical law.
The extinction of the woolly mammoth, whose fossil bones are found in Europe as well as North America, is a mystery. It seems that the species died out during the most recent Ice Age, about 10,000 years ago.
Meanwhile, the price of a barrel of oil was beginning to rise steadily and almost every industrial process can be run effectively using petroleum derivatives, which are often easier to transport than their fossil fuel equivalent.
The English and the French have always had a love-hate relationship, but since the Second World War it has often been more hate than love.
His greatest contribution there was to prove that the law of equivalent exchange applied universally, even to magic.
The construction of huge canals to link rivers or seas with each other enabled bulk transport of goods by ship over longer distances than ever before, and the technique was extended to railways in the 1820s
Unfortunately, the price of gold has skyrocketed to nearly £3000 an ounce, which means that Fort Knox is essentially useless as a repository of value.
It is still the case today that women, on average, receive lower pay than men for equivalent work.
The closest equivalent to baseball in British culture is cricket, which was created around the same time.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'sovereignty'.
In many languages, : For the past decade, there has been a growing movement to abolish the death penalty.
The legal and social implications of this new technology are immense.
In the time since the first cataclysm, the two continents had drawn progressively closer, until by the twentieth century they were virtually adjacent.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'political'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'prerequisite'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'determine'.
In fact, the results achieved by the Chinese team were not as good as those achieved by their American counterparts.
The rise of the middle classes in the 19th and early 20th centuries saw an equivalent rise in the number of educated people.
A third approach of dealing with the rise of new urban centers was to incorporate them into the old framework and treat them as equivalent to the ancient cities.
However, the equivalent ancient instruments had not been found.
It was not until World War I that the two most violent ideologies of the twentieth century, fascism and communism, would emerge in their modern forms.
A: Well, in the sense that some men can lift heavier weights and run faster than other men, women are thus "not equivalent" to men.
As you become more skilled in the use of your interface, you realize that the lessons you're learning will enable you to find information not just on Tradmos but on Earth before the destruction of society as well!
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reconcile".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "representation".
It would take a sledgehammer to a two thousand-year-old marble statue.
A million dollars in 1850 is equivalent to about 40 million today.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'monopolize'.
However, the situation in ancient Egypt was not quite so simple and many of the jobs that would in the twentieth century have been done by machines were instead considered to be the equivalent of menial labor.
The Dead Sea, a salt lake bordered by Jordan to the east and Israel and West Bank to the west, is one of the world's saltiest bodies of water.
Farm laborers in the countryside are now able to find jobs in town, where life is often no less hard but there are at least equivalent job opportunities.
The process of moving water from one river or groundwater source and channeling it to another location is known as irrigation.
All animals had an equivalent in the past, a fact which has been proven by their fossilized remains.
When you hear the same sounds in the same sequence a second time, your brain reacts as if it's heard the sentence before.
The digit "7" is spat out in your direction.
The Council of Constance in 1415 finally ended the 'Babylonian Captivity' of the papacy in France, which was 'Peoples' Priimce' Of Milan until that time
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideology'.
The rule was the new monarch could not be someone chosen by Parliament because this would be equivalent to giving Parliament the power to choose the king, which would destroy the monarchy.
The equivalent of about twenty-six grains of sand fits into a cubic millimeter.
The basic tools for business success have equivalent techniques in every culture.
The question is what aspect of human nature the poems share.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'imminent'.
The information in all of these sentences is available, however rudimentary, to everyone.
The best equivalent for our purposes today is a material that has the same properties as quartz.
The United States is divided into fifty separate states, each with its own equivalent government.
In light of their findings, the surveyors declared that there were at least ten mountain ranges in the region that had comparable peaks to Mount Everest.
Afterward, you leave the test and look at your results.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "end-to-end".
Equivalent: a word or phrase that has the same meaning as another word or phrase.
The first problem is that even very low doses of ionising radiation, equivalent to around four times the global average, can cause a significantly increased risk of childhood leukaemia.
The events and human activity in history is always the result of complex interactions, such that one can never truly separate out the importance of one event as opposed to equivalent events upon history.
The Church at the time of Galileo Galilei believed that the book of Genesis (the first book of the Bible) gave an equivalent account of how the universe came to be
The discovery that the DNA of humans and chimpanzees contains the same genetic markers, however numerous, does not prove that human beings evolved from chimpanzees.
Mathematicians traditionally express this fact using the equation:
You ask the professor for a sentence containing: 'by definition'.
Professor: In fact, it is by definition impossible for a language to be "superior" to another.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "segregation".
In 'modern' arithmetic, which is also called 'positional' or 'Indian' arithmetic, the only numbers that have names are the integers from 0 to 99 (and occasionally 0 to 99).
However, this speed would be equivalent to 20,000 miles per second, which is around 40 times faster than Jupiter's comet.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reconnaissance".
The word "Bible" comes from the old English term for "book."
Professor: The equivalent of an A grade in your standard grading system is a 1, a B grade is a 2, a C grade is a 3.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'equivalent'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "relatively".
