

#consensus

The US government is a consensus democracy, which means that it is run by elected officials voted in by a majority of citizens.
Grammatical theories don't always reflect the general consensus of how language is used in real life.
However, while there was consensus on the abstract ideas, there was little agreement on the concrete measures needed to implement them.
Two decades after the end of World War I, the political leaders of Britain and France met with the chief diplomats of the United States to decide whether or not to intervene in the war-torn economy of Germany, which they believed was threatened by Bolshevik
The whole concept of a popularly elected government, accepted that the ruler would be just an employee with limited powers and that he would have to obey laws voted by the majority.
The Rorquals' importance is only really fully realized if we have a good idea of their numbers. To do that we need a rough idea of their population size and an idea of their numbers at each age.
The evidence for the existence of extraterrestrials is mounting and a scientific consensus is developing that such beings have in fact visited Earth in the remote past.
The expert panel reached consensus on only one finding: Chocolate is good.
However, the issue of global warming has brought out a strong consensus from world governments.
The beginning of the movement for democracy in America can be dated to the Constitutional Convention of 1787.
Without a meaningful consensus on the definition of humanity, there was precious little the council could do.
The opinions of the contributing authors on many matters of historical controversy are far from being a consensus.
The two decisions were the result of years of behind-the-scenes work by political and academic consensus, which was a remarkable achievement for such a fractious group.
However, it is not clear that there is any scholarly consensus about the definition of either term, and in practice they are rarely if ever used outside of discussions of same-gender sexual behavior.
There is little consensus in the scientific community as to when humans first set foot in America.
The US was drawn into the war by two of the most powerful forces in human history, Nationalism and Democracy.
Although at the time there was no scientific consensus on the matter and it remained a question for debate for several decades afterward, Gellar's experiments with humans were viewed as having gone too far.
In 1961, it was discovered that the theory of a worldwide Ice Age was in fact a consensus, created to explain the origin of fossils found in North America.
One of the popular explanations, especially among Church historians, was the doctrine of consensus.
Genetic research has confirmed that the human race did indeed branch off from a common ancestor in the recent past.
But we can be sure that the meeting of the world leaders will reach a consensus as to the best solution for the future of humanity.
The approach of the international community on climate change has been to seek a scientific consensus on what human activities are causing it.
There is a general consensus among religious leaders that the boy was a prophet.
Socially, their consensus is that women should not play a role in the war.
The scientific community ultimately reached a consensus that the decision to end animal testing couldn't be justified
The full name, G8 (with the ‘e'), is used when a meeting with European Union representatives is also included.
Concerning the controversy about the Creation Museum, several news reports claim that there is an ongoing scientific consensus
Almost no one disputes that after the end of the last Ice Age about twelve thousand years ago, human beings started to migrate from Asia into North America.
As the 18th century progressed, more people started to doubt if a legal judgment based on universal principles could ever be reached by an agreement between reasonable men.
The search for consensus has caused political paralysis in Ireland.
The Copenhagen interpretation states that while the wave function doesn't disappear and is still a "real" physical phenomenon that can be measured, it's meaningless to ask what the particle is actually doing when it's in a superposition.
The theory that bothanimals and humans evolved from a common ancestor. The theory of evolution is accepted by almost all scientists, and the concept of which is regarded as fact by almost all biologists and scholars.
The term 'consensus' derives from the Latin word for 'general opinion'.
Within the scientific community there is a general consensus that a virus, not human pollution, causes human cancer.
In historical linguistics, the consensus of historical evidence is defined by the Oxford English Dictionary as "general agreement among scholars on the nature of such evidence".
However, by 1800 there was a growing consensus that much poverty in the factory towns was directly caused by the Industrial Revolution.
The inability of the Inuit people to form a consensus on how to respond to a crisis meant that they were ill prepared when foreign diseases were brought to their land.
The theory of evolution is less controversial among scientists than it was fifty or a hundred years ago, but there still is no broad scientific consensus that it happens in the way that Gould and Vrba described.
In the end, only a consensus between the scientists and the political leaders led to agreement on a limited decision.
However, during the last half of the twentieth century there was a broad scholarly consensus concerning the origin of modern humans.
And there was a tremendous international consensus on this during that time.
Also, one might doubt whether the idea of a consensus has been well worked-out or is even viable.
A space mission would be a great achievement for humanity, but whether it constitutes a worthwhile goal depends on the answer to one question: Is there a scientific consensus in favour of it?
The approach also gained consensus within the scientific community for its explanation of how proteins formed.
The Council excludes any form of dissent which could challenge the consensus of what knowledge is valid and allowed.
A CONSENSUS OF EVIDENCE suggests that the Qumran community was separate from, but in contact with, the Jerusalem Church at the time of Christ.
He believed that nations should form a broad worldwide consensus on how to deal with these problems.
Some major financial agreements, like the eurozone agreement, require a unanimous consensus of all participating members.
Although society will always have minority groups that disagree about certain issues, a functioning democracy requires a general consensus, or majority agreement, about how to face the future.
Although there was wide disagreement about details, economists in the first half of the twentieth century were remarkably united on the need for a central bank to control the money supply.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'tolerated'.
... a lone dissenter can always wait for others to see the light and shift to his or her point of view, which is what usually happens; this is called the "consensus effect".
It is important to note that among the scientists themselves there was no consensus on this issue.
The first thing you realize from glancing through some of the papers is that there is no consensus.
However, many disagree with this view, arguing that the "democratic consensus" is nothing of the kind.
The text above also poses the theory of a peak population of the world's human population during the reign of ancient Rome and Greece. This is common knowledge, so a little too easy.
One of the panel's conclusions is that there is a consensus among scientists around the world that human activity is the main cause of climate change.
Until the 1970s, some geologists believed that coal was of organic origin, created by prehistoric plants and forests.
There is no consensus among historians about whether Louis was a reluctant draftee into World War I or a patriot who believed in his duty as king.
Some linguists argue that the science of language has a consensus on several issues, such as the molding of the primitive language horde by a limited number of necessary and sufficient conditions.
The scientific consensus in the 1930s was that meteorites couldn't burn up in Earth's atmosphere.
They found a consensus that there was no evidence to support this.
The scientific consensus is that acupuncture can reduce pain but it doesn't address the underlying cause of the pain.
But there was no consensus about the underlying causes of the violence.
Eventually, the idea of morphic fields was disregarded and forgotten by most biologists, as there was no evidence for it and the idea lacked scientific consensus.
There is a scientific consensus that life on earth has evolved from simpler forms over billions of years.
There is less consensus about what the dramatic event might have been, with theories including the explosion of the Supervolcano at Lake Toba in Sumatra, which left a permanent hole in the ozone layer and cooled the planet, and the equally dramatic
The consensus of anthropological opinion is that religion, at least in its organized form, began when early humans tried to explain natural phenomena that they couldn't understand.
With their specialization in minutiae and their reliance on consensus rather than fact, medieval theologians had no choice but to approve of the expanding use of technology, which they couldn't find any damning ethical problems with.
Those who oppose this treaty say that doing so would imply an unacceptable economic burden on the middle classes.
One of the great achievements of the field was that for many years climatologists managed to achieve a remarkable consensus, which allowed them to reach timely decisions on whether or not such an event as global warming was actually taking place.
Since the end of the Cold War there is a new consensus among political scientists that the democratic systems of government are inherently stable.
Most of the theories about the French Revolution are based on a consensus that the aristocracy, the church and the government had been relentlessly exploiting the working classes for years.
Right now, there is a consensus among governments that the effects of climate change can be dealt with by planting new trees - and there's even some truth to it.
Their consensus was that many of the diseases came from infected livestock exported from mainland Europe.
In your judgment, the consenus among the experts is that the new scanning process is substantially more accurate and reliable than the old technique, even if it's a little bit on the expensive side.
Despite some disagreements over its findings, there was scientific consensus that the structure of DNA was as Watson and Crick described it.
The idea that all individuals of a particular culture should be treated in the same way at the same time is known as the consensus of that culture.
However, it is now generally believed that he did not write the works that he was alleged to have written. The notion of a Shakespeare conspiracy and the authorship question are an indication of the controversy and doubt surrounding his consensus biographical image.
However there was no scientific consensus that human races had indeed evolved in a hierarchy with Caucasians at the top.
However, there is a consensus that during the seventeenth century a scientific revolution took place.
One of the panel's conclusions was that nine key tests were needed to detect coronary artery disease.
The driving factor in the creation of the consensus was the politicians' desire to appear proactive and decisive after a series of victories by Islamic terrorists.
And, if the so-called consensus of scientists is correct, it will become even easier to decode entire genes in the near future.
However, no consensus was reached.
Cloning uses the DNA of an organism to assemble a living copy of that organism, and in this it can be said to use a sort of ‘code'.
There is as yet no scholarly consensus about whether the Native American population was wiped out by waves of invaders or by a combination of death through infection and slaughter.
Unanimous agree
As the history of science shows, however, genuine scientific consensus is rare and genuine revolutions occur when scientists agree on a new theory which replaces an older one.
There is considerable disagreement between the scientists, but there seems to be a general scientific consensus that …
Nobody has been able to achieve a consensus as to what the cause of the French Revolution was.
In climate research, a 'consensus' does not emerge from a democratic vote around a conference table.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'however'.
There is some disagreement amongst scientists about the exact causes of climate change.
There is a widespread consensus that the findings will be universally accepted within the scientific community.
The theory attributed to American writer Elwyn Berlekamp, which was based on a survey of German economists, found little consensus among economists.
Most anthropologists and archaeologists agree, however that the consensus view of human evolution is probably not entirely correct.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unanimous'.
No one can remember a time when there wasn't a consensus that the first syllable of his name rhymes with ‘mine' and not ‘knee'.
"There is a consensus among the scientific community that human beings developed gradually from earlier life forms, reaching an important milestone known as modernity around 50,000 years ago."


#constitute

The constitution of the new country was largely based on America's.
In this sense, women constituted less than 3% of the entire population of wage earners in agriculture and the same in industry.
The word 'constitute' (kahn-stih-tewt) means to "be of fundamental importance" or "to make up, compose".
The poor living conditions in Western Europe at the time constitute the main reason why the black plague spread so rapidly.
Professor: In a three-year period, nine different prime ministers constituted the government.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "elaborate".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "lost".
Impressionism in the visual arts was in many ways an extension of the artistic movement of Romanticism, which in turn constituted part of the wider nineteenth-century trend away from rationalism and toward a focus on the emotional and the subjective.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reluctance'.
They do not constitute a large portion of the population and are heavily concentrated in the Middle East.
The south of the USA has traditionally constituted the country's agricultural and industrial heartland.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'empirical'.
The panel was formed to investigate whether any employee of the branch had information about the robbery but at this point they don't believe he constitutes a flight risk.
The loss of these prisoners didn't constitute a large proportion of all the prisoners being held.
The main problem with constructing a cell of the constitution is that it constituted an entirely new governing institution.
The clergy at the time constituted one of the most educated strata in society.
Religion constitutes a set of beliefs beyond the scope of science.
The four individuals seated at the front constitute the committee
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "obsolete".
The book was widely criticized for its antagonistic attitude towards the Jesuits, which many readers felt constituted a defamation of the entire Catholic religion.
For the first time in two-hundred years, internal security and not external defense constituted the
To constitute a majority, the party leaders agreed that at least three of the five to seven judges on the committee would have to agree with a verdict.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "indeed".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'nationalities'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'refute'.
The citizens of the republic were granted Roman citizenship but this was not extended to all free men at this time because it was felt that too many people would constitute a burden on the state.
If you are from the United States and visit the country of Mexico, you are visiting a different nation than the one you live in.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "formidable".
The defeat simply constituted a setback;
It is always difficult to determine what constitute a 'soul'.
The collection of works by William Shakespeare that most people read and/or perform do not in themselves constitute his entire opus.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'affluent'.
The twentieth century has also seen an increasing gap between the first and the third world.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "science".
The scientific community were shocked by the revelation that intelligent life on our planet might have had extraterrestrial origins.
The most important issue at stake in the Ems telegram dispute was the question of whether foreign policy was the sole responsibility of the executive branch or whether the legislature had a say.
It has been pointed out that only about 50% of people suffering from schizophrenia actually commit violence against others and that the majority of violence in society is not committed by them.
The world is constituted by an unimaginably large number of things.
The documents constitute the proof that the Roman Catholic church unsuccessfuly tried to cover up the massacre at Lidice.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'traditionally'.
Another group of physicians used a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen to constitute a new breathing gas, which they called "artificial air."
The constitutions of liberal democracies typically guarantee basic human rights and the protection of minorities.
The diversity of traditions in Africa makes it difficult to constitute a single legal system for the entire continent.
Some non-western foods, such as the spicy curries and rice noodles of Southeast Asia constitute the basis for many of the meals in the city.
Eventually, the king's Chief Minister, Sir Robert Walpole managed to establish a stable political system that constituted the first 'party' system in British politics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "outcome".
The issue involved whether the federal government or the individual states had the final authority to "constitute" or designate electors.
The Dutch and Belgians must constitute the main effort; the British forces should only attack if success seems certain and help would be crucial.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'abolished'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'colonization'.
The state constitutions often established their governments as sets of checks and balances, as the U.S. Constitution did with its three branches of government.
The instruments do not constitute the orchestra; they are merely its tools.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'correct'.
The child's most obvious deformity is his left arm which is noticeably much smaller than his right and lacks any sense of flexibility or movement.
The most important pressure for this change of diet among these early humans was the need to consume more calories to
In 1920, the most important event in American labor history took place when the AFL and the CIO united to create the AFL-CIO, which constitutes the largest Labor Union in North America.
The peasantry constituted more than 80% of the population at the time, and they needed to pay heavy taxes in order for the king to maintain his lavish lifestyle.
The League of Nations, founded after World War I, was an organization that was supposed to prevent wars from starting but in reality did not constitute a true world government.
The Thirty Years' War constituted a turning point
There was a strong feeling that Germany had been betrayed not only by her rulers but by her intellectuals, and that the country's humiliation, impoverishment and inflation did not merely constitute a material catastrophe, but a spiritual and intellectual one as well.
The three sections of the Talmud are the Mishnah, the essential commentary on the laws of Torah, or Pentateuch; the Ghemara, supplementary commentary by rabbinic teachers of the next generation; and the Tavrit, the commentary
Rome constitutes the first and most important empire in the history of western civilization.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "jurisprudence."
The wider Roman community in Britain constitutes what are known as the Romanized Britons.
The US constitution was created by a group of colonialists, later known as the Founding Fathers.
Waves constitute sound only when they reach our ears.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'referred'.
Leaders are the most important in constituting a society.
In a democracy, the people constitute the final source of all power
The issue that the protest was about constituted, in a way, a threat to the government's authority.
The United States constitution continued to be interpreted and amended up to the twentieth century.
The Union would never have been able to win without the industrial might of the North, which constituted two thirds of the country's total.
It's not entirely clear why these governments have been allowed to constitute such a problem.
Professor: The mixture of these substances constitutes the ink that has been used to print this page.
Professor: The main reasons why most people wanted to emigrate were economic, political or religious during this time.
The professor now holds up a red card. He says that if you hear a sentence with "emigrate"
However, it isn't clear whether the change in diet would constitute a new adaptation or a simple shift from one food source to another.
The data does not constitute proof that the conditions found in the sample population are representative of the population as a whole.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'optimistic'.
The optimistic emigrants believed they would soon be rich.
The three types of government that have existed in most states at most times are the dictatorship, the oligarchy and the democracy.
The most important constituents of a general theory of rebellion are the oppressive nature of the established order, the value system of those who rebel, and the type of non-cooperation the dissidents resort to.
In addition, among the most disturbing events in 1999 for the authorities were the burnings of more than 5,700 immigrants in refugee camps in the Republic of the Congo, carried out by soldiers and Congolese citizens.
The new law constitutes a dramatic shift in our education policies.
In the West, the fall of the Roman Empire and the inability of the Church to constitute a new unified government led to a collapse in infrastructure.
The success of the Maastricht Treaty in bringing the European Union into existence constitutes a change in the nature of the organization which may prove to be
The nation-state, constituted as it is of various races and classes of people, seems to be a general, if not universal, phenomenon in the modern world.
The groups that make up the population of the country are known as 'constituencies'.
The Bolshevik's seizure of power was a dramatic break with Russia's past. Although the legacy of this event continued to constitute a major influence in Russia there were also important differences from what had gone before.
These above mentioned reasons do not constitute the only arguments against the death penalty.
"The conflicts of the twentieth century constituted a new age of warfare."
The primary reason for the fall of the Han was the gradually, progressively, continual loss of power in government.
In the middle of the eighteenth century Britain did not yet constitute a major naval power.
The war cost the nation dearly, both in lives lost and as a constituent of its future.
Chief of these were the discovery of gold and other precious materials: Germany had resources now that could constitute their economic independence.
The British constitution is often said to consist of several key documents and legal precedents.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "ideological".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing ‘reconnaissance'.
In the past, law students had to study the philosophy of law called natural law, which stated that there were certain rights that constituted "natural justice" and that governments were obliged to follow.
The Second World War constituted a major turning point in American foreign relations.
The number of fatalities was very high, constituting nearly a third of the population.
They constitute one of the biggest threats to modern-day aircraft.
The various tribes that constituted the Iroquois Confederacy had a strong system of government based on consensus.
While it is true that his father and grandfather were also physicians, it would be a mistake to consider him a hereditary doctor, since in those days doctors constituted a separate professional class.
The treaty that ended World War I constituted a radical redefinition of national sovereignty.


#construct

One of the great challenges for constructivists is to explain why languages are relatively stable, and don't continue to quickly change in response to people's use of them.
During the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, many monarchs were put on their thrones as infants and minors. These included Catherine the Great of Russia, Frederick the Great of Prussia, Paul I of Russia and many others.
"The second part of the book looks at how our knowledge of language and its origins help us to interpret and construct past events".
The purpose of the construct was to prevent patients with certain diseases carrying the potential to spread their infection from one area of the country to another.
Theories and constructs of what the past was like are by definition hypotheses about past processes and events.
The theory of the social construction of ideas and reality stresses that most aspects society, such as science and social classes are man-made, rather than natural or god-given.
The general process in which a theory is created and developed is known as the ‘constructivist' approach.
He believed that we construct social realities out of perceived reality, and that these constructed social realities can have just as much impact on us as perceived reality.
The theory of multiculturalism is very different from the theory of multi-racialism.
In fact, many social scientists regard the family as a patriarchal construct rather than a biological imperative.
For the pragmatists, the world can only be known through human experience and constructing a meaningful reality based on sensory input.
The aims of most psychotherapists are to construct a safe therapeutic environment and establish a relationship of trust and empathy with their patients.
As your teacher, it is my construct that the decision will focus more on responsibility than blame.
Construct reasonable
Study of historical documents is referred to as historical research or simply as history.
It is an attempt to construct a model of human thought processes based on conceptual metaphors.
Both the Nazis and the Soviet Union used the language of class warfare to construct a dangerous enemy that needed to be defeated.
The concept of race was used to 'construct' a hierarchy in which whiteness was always at the top, and blackness was at the bottom.
The idea that all human interaction is based on a set of hypothetical and abstract ideas and beliefs, rather than reality, is the basis of constructivism.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'kingship'.
In the case of a scientific theory, the model is usually taken to be an analogue of some physical structure which may have a direct correspondence to it, or may be an abstraction which is not obviously like any physical structure but is useful in helping understand
However, the Baron's theories were soon proved to be fact by later constructivists.
The construct of class has been an important part of social structure at least since the rise of industrialisation in Europe.
After this, you copy down the one sentence the professor has written so far. It reads:
In the 1920s, psychologists believed that intelligence was made up of primary mental abilities such as logic, spatial visualization and verbal comprehension.
While the term 'equality' may imply a state where everyone is equal, the term 'equal opportunity' suggests that there is not such a state.
Mathematical constructs such as the hypotenuse of a right-angle triangle had fascinated humankind for centuries.
Francesca rejected the idea that gender differences were a construct of society rather than an inborn trait.
The nature of language is a complex one, and this has resulted in a series of theories about the topic.
Sapir-Whorf hypothesis: the idea that people perceive the world and therefore interact with it in different ways depending on their cultures
The theory that mental processes are constructs formed from unconscious links between sense impressions dates from the work of the German psychologist Wilhelm Wundt.
One common social construct is the idea of race; people see themselves as being a particular race and others as not, and this affects interaction.
Professor: The first step in scientific method is to construct a hypothesis, which relates directly to your answer.
The "big construct" of the renaissance period for art and culture is humanism.
The views of the naturalists were considered to be out of date.
The "construction" of the principles underlying New Deal legislation spanned FDR's terms in office - dealing with the consequences took much longer.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'characterization'.
Material from dreams can be very difficult to interpret because individual symbols can have multiple and sometimes quite different meanings.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'overbearing'.
The theory of the social construction of knowledge is used mainly by sociologists and educationalists.
One of the most simple was the ladder, or stairs.
However, while this definition might serve as a basis for understanding the causes of the conflict, it is silent on the question of why European nationalism took such an exclusionary and aggressive form, namely imperialism, whereas in Canada, a colony with equally conducive
But how we view law is a human construct and does not necessarily reflect any 'true reality' that the laws have to be interpreted in different ways by different judges.
The theory that children play because it prepares them for adult life is a construct of the twentieth century.
There are several different interpretations of what the construct really means.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "necessary".
With the 20th-century rise of computers and their applications in industry and technology, a critical mass of jobs have been vaporised through automation needing ever-fewer human workers to operate them; A construction worker might now be a computer scientist and
One of the great 19th-century constructions is the Kraków Cathedral in Poland.
The purpose of the tests is to challenge your critical thinking.
Jean de Léry was a 16th-century Calvinist minister who, at the age of 40, first encountered the Tupi people in what is now Brazil.
It will be extremely difficult to maintain any sort of united front with so many conflicting aims and goals among the groups inside, and that in itself is a major construct of this new world.
The 19th-century prison reformer believed that criminals were products of their environment and could be reformed.
The most important construct in the test is whether the prisoner is likely to recidivate (commit another crime).
Almost all the great early civilizations built "wonders", or massive structures that were supposed to be architectural marvels.
The theory of the nobility of poverty was a construct of the monastic classes, who strongly believed that material possessions were signs of greed, which, as mentioned before, was one of the seven deadly sins.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "contemporary".
The "world construct" attempts to incorporate as many beliefs and values as possible, relying on the idea that everyone will share the same opinion of what is a 'good' belief or value.
Roger Scruton has criticized both relativism and multiculturalism as destructive, and warned that such philosophies will undermine society by destroying people's traditional "constructs" of good and evil and right and wrong.
The term "social construct" is often applied to unpleasant things that people would prefer to believe are not real.
Most 18th-century German intellectuals believed that man was essentially a creature of reason.
The term 'classical Marxist theory' is basically a construct based on certain assumptions about the nature and functioning of industrial societies.
The most important construct of the theory is that people with more resources are generally happier than those with fewer resources.
The idea of 'race' is a social construct with no meaning in biology.
The construct of the devil is a very important aspect of Christianity.
A historian would see a personality trait such as laziness as a mental construct, having no existence except in the mind of the observer.
The main purpose of the doctrine of constructive treason was to make it easier to bring offenders to justice by significantly widening the number of crimes defined as treason.
It attempts to explain historical events based on the cultural construction of gender roles.
They should be able to bring in their own ideas and visions while still respecting those that have come before them...construct a meaningful past for the family.
The idea that there are definitive distinctions between political ideologies such as Fascism, Communism and Liberalism is a construct of political scientists.
In his book, Plessy argues that segregation is a form of equality: "separate but equal" facilities for different races are both logical and just.
"(S)he constructed a meaning of the word from the clues."
Jean Piaget's theory of infant development is a constructivist theory of the growth of an infant mind.
But the concept of human nature that Dawkins and I.I. repeatedly attack is a 'master program' (to use Edelman's term) that is common to all of us, a construct that many people strive to impose on reality.
As already mentioned, the country was seen as a  "construct" rather than as a "given" or "reality".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apolitical'.
The religious and apolitical nature of the Tibetans allowed them to easily adapt to situations as they arose.
The first problem is the choice of construct; real ability tests have been developed to measure cognitive skills such as verbal, mathematical and non-verbal reasoning. Interactive software programs have been designed to teach these skills in an adaptive manner.
Their work was a reaction against the construction of fictional dinosaurs in 19th-century children's books.
We have also uncovered written instructions detailing the steps necessary to construct additional copies of these machines,
The assumption that our personality is a product of our environment, as opposed to our inborn biological nature, has been one of the dominant ideologies of the past fifty years.
The 'theory of social construct' view of deviance claims that what is considered deviant changes according to the norms of a particular society.
The most important construct for the purpose of this discussion is the idea of a comparative advantage.
The mind is not a camera, it is a hall of mirrors, a carefully crafted construction of art and illusion designed to fool you every waking moment of your life.
The first thing you have to teach them is that, on a busy street, the cars aren't going to stop "just because they can see a kid".
One of the biggest unresolved issues in the social sciences is the male female difference in achievement, which is especially important in fields like math, physics and philosophy.
Many of the building techniques used when the Romans built the amphitheatre are still used in modern construction, and some of those techniques have since been reconstructed and called 'original', when they are actually reconstructions or even false constructions.
In this view, science itself is a social "construction", with no distinct or preferred epistemological status.
The only thing all civilizations seem to have in common is that they all had a written language. Writing, therefore, could be said to be the 'construct' used by all civilizations.
The very idea of a 'gay gene' construct is controversial, some might say inherently wrong.
The education systems in different countries construct and transmit essential cultural values in a variety of ways.
A theoretical structure or ideational framework created by the mind for the purpose of understanding and making sense of something (such as a social phenomenon).
They tend to view the idea of consciousness as a mere construct of our minds.
The traditional view of the aristocracy was that they ruled by divine right, a doctrine that the English philosopher Thomas Hobbes criticized as a constructive fraud because it allowed an unjust order to exist without penalty.
In the 1990s, several women employed by the cosmetics company Elizabeth Arden, Inc claimed that they had suffered a number of adverse health effects arising out of their use of the cosmetic product Red Door perfume.
The idea that human nature is a social construct, rather than an inevitable consequence of our biological makeup, is also criticised by many.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "day".
The Hapsburg Empire, with its vast multiethnic population and diverse set of nationalities, was a prime example of a multinational empire held together by force of personality and strength.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "attributes".
In constructing the Panama Canal, which was completed in 1914, the builders had to deal with less rain and more sunshine than had the ancient builders of the land bridge.
The three-tiered theory of human personality provides Westerners with a construct for understanding their own nature and that of the societies they inhabit.
In the Piagetian tradition, 'making a consturction' is a term applied to the process of formation of cognitive structures.


#contend

I see some people are still prepared to publicly contend that women are inferior.
For example, the ancient Jews and their religion were written off by many as hopelessly outdated and backward. The Jewish response to this was to contend that only God and his laws, not people, were eternal.
For the pre-war years, the National Party contended that South Africa was a "Christian Nation", implying that it should be in the "hands" of white Afrikaners.
Professor: It was a period marked by the unwillingness of the rulers to grant any sort of freedom to their subjects; all the monarchs of Europe at this time were eager to maintain control over their kingdoms, with the major figures of the day being
The government never really made any effort to effectively contend with the growing problem.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "highlight".
However, while it is true that the protesters have a right to free speech and assembly, this right is not without limitation; it may not be used an an opportunity to unnecessarily impede traffic or threaten life and property.
The other important aspect of the Japanese occupation was the education system. The Japanese wanted to enlighten the Filipinos and teach them "proper" values such as discipline, diligence, and respect.
Nowadays, many historians no longer believe that William of Orange was the main impetus behind the Glorious Revolution. Rather, it is argued, he served as a "convenient scapegoat"
The main rival of Hitler's party in Germany was the Communist Party which the Nazis were determined to destroy, or "contend".
Professor: The second way is to find a "connection" by choosing the answer you think connects logically with all of the answers around it.
Professor: The most important aspect of this work is the interpretation of large numbers of facts within the evolutionary theory.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "falsify".
One of the most interesting theories that has been put forth to explain the collapse of the Mayan civilisation is the contention that the forests which supplied the tribe with vital resources were suddenly destroyed.
"It is not my contention that women are more moral than men."
One of the more extravagant explanations for the fall of the Roman Empire is offered by those who contend that a reduction in sunlight reaching the Earth's surface resulted in cooling temperatures, crop failures and famines.
The theory that humans are descended from apes most definitely does not imply that humans have the same capabilities as these creatures.
The Zapatistas contend that 'Pena ni ocholah' or 'A day labourer' can be both an owner of a business and someone who is completely landless and depends on wages.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "depicted".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "introspect".
The theory would have to be heavily modified to take into account the new evidence, and some historians no longer hold it to be an effective interpretation of the available primary sources.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'scarcity'.
The problem is that economists must then contend with the fact that supply usually cannot be easily increased.
The German generals had been well trained and equipped but were still far outnumbered by the Russians; they were also still recovering from their reversal at the Battle of Moscow.
Samuel Johnson once said, "Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel."
"The Church has never officially stated if extraterrestrials are angels, but Pope John Paul II did say that the church would have no objection if an alien came to Earth and wanted to worship God."
The final ground is what is known as the "contemporary understanding of historical context", which requires a complete understanding of the historical social, political and religious contexts.
Durkheim's colleague Levy-Bruhl argued that primitive people don't display abstract thought because they haven't reached the required level of development.
The nihilists did not engage in the social and political struggles that most other Russian revolutionary groups of the time, such as the Marxists and the Social-Revolutionaries, contended.
Noam Chomsky, one of the best-known and most radical linguists, has spent a lifetime contending that the human ability to acquire language is essentially genetically determined.
Some historians contend that the French ship "L'Orient" was hit by a Royal Navy explosive shell, caught fire and exploded, killing everyone on board.
Delegates from the two opposing sides, the Nationalists and Communists, would meet and argue their cases and afterward, announce how many delegates were in attendance for each.
The most important school of thought among ancient Chinese intellectuals was Confucianism, whose Latin equivalent is "doctrina et altera persona", or doctrine and another person (i.e. master and student).
Victorian England witnessed an attempt to revive many medieval theories and institutions, which socialists often refer to as 'feudalism'.
The communists are contending that the poor have a vital role to play in bringing down the government.
A few writers continue to contend that William Shakespeare of Stratford-upon-Avon did in fact write the plays we attribute to him.
This suggests the third world nations do not necessarily desire to remain in their dependent relationship with the first world nations.
Jesuit astronomers continued to defend the idea that the sun was at the center of the Solar System.
The main point that the Church leaders contend is that a marriage should be based on love, not an arrangement of families.
The predominant view among physicists prior to the 20th century was that light is a wave.
Anthropology's central concern is the relationship between humans and culture.
The theory states that the reason why fascism and communism became such powerful forces in the 1920s is the inequalities that came from industrialization. The fascists and communists both claimed to have the solution to these problems.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "fierce".
Professor: In the trial, the defendant did not contest the charges against him.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'obnoxious'.
Professor: As a result of these findings it is contended that there is no basis for stereotypes against people of any particular racial, ethnic or gender group.
Hayek is best known for his conviction that the free market is a necessary condition for personal freedom.
The primacy of the individual, which we often take for granted as an inherent, natural, and timeless feature of Western civilization, is in fact a relatively recent, transitory, and local phenomenon.
The issues of the union with Scotland and parliamentary reform were two main positions in a political battle that the Liberal Party was waging with the Conservative Party, which was in power.
The social contract theorists, for example Locke and Rousseau, believed that the only justification for a person to amassing more money and power than their fellows is their contribution to the health and well-being of the general population.
The cause for which the most written has been fought and contended for, suggests the best subject for a great historical tragedy.
The two personalities never have any contact, and so don't contend with each other for attention.
We no longer have any reasons to continue to contend that Neanderthals couldn't think or feel.
The chief ideologists of the revolution, however, most notably Rousseau, vehemently disagreed with the revolutionaries' contentions.
The government promptly dismissed the charges, but throughout the trial there were signs of an ugly public reaction that troubled not just the Nez Perces and their counsel.
The two most prominent theories of the origins of language are the argument that language developed primarily as a result of human needs and the argument that language developed from emotions.
In the 20th century the harnessing of electricity forced a final major revision of the theory.
Theory one: The Earth is flat
However, capitalists have long contended that growth—and the competition and innovation that accompanies it—suffices to solve the problem.
In the eighteenth century, there was a move away from absolute monarchy to constitutional monarchy in many countries.
The most famous of these is the contention that dinosaurs did not in fact go extinct millions of years before the first humans evolved but rather people coexisted with them.
Most creationists believe that the Grand Canyon is between five and six thousand years old and was formed around the time of Noah's flood.
The religions of the period made no claim to knowledge about the beginning or end of the world. Instead they focused on developing spiritually through devotion to their particular god.
However, in the last two decades evidence has been mounting that humans and chimps only differentiated at a little over 1.5 million years ago, a finding with important bioethical implications.
History does not record the name of an engineer who found a way of manufacturing tungsten steel that was tough enough to be used for armor, but contend day he surely is forgotten
As a 13-year-old, the child was already contending with
He is best known for his contention that early societies had goddess worship as their center, which later, through the process of myth and ritual, became centered on gods.
The theory that human life originated elsewhere in the universe and only later found its way to Earth was first proposed by one of Darwin's contemporaries, but has since fallen into disfavor among biologists, many of whom contend that life on Earth is simply
Professor: Other parts of the world have similar documents that explain that kind of relationship. The Indians of America have the Iroquois Confederation,
The Vikings sailed as far as North America three centuries before the English, led by Leif Erikson, are believed to have done, but there is no evidence they ever colonized here.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "believe".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "accordingly".
In ancient times, there was no sharp distinction between a philosopher and a priest. Instead, philosophers often acted as priests, offering moral instruction as well as theology.
They did not recognize the new Republic of Argentina, contending that it was a fraudulently established puppet government.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'college'.
Many economists contend that the technological innovation and the increase in productivity that has come from the personal computer outweighs any negative affects it may have.
The idea that the earliest humans were skilled toolmakers is difficult to prove or disprove because no fossil remains of these people exist.
Some economists continue to see the value of an unregulated market while others strongly contend that a market cannot be successfully left to its own devices.
The two main theories that attempt to explain the extinction of megafauna in North America are overkill and climate change.
While we will always have far more in common with those who are closest to us in terms of talent, ambition, and even heritage, we can learn from people who are very different from us.
The cause for the fall of the Roman Empire is still widely disputed amongst historians, as there are many different views between historians who contend that it was most significantly caused by one of a number of factors or those who believe that it was a combination of
The conflict resulted primarily from restrictions the federal government placed on state governments.
John F. Kennedy's inaugural address argued that a new era had begun, and that the principal problem facing the U.S. is not purging communism from the world but peace and freedom at home.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'insurrection'.
As it is defined by the Oxford English Dictionary, to contend is "to recognize as valid, to defend or maintain (a position or theory) against opposition."
At the beginning of the war both sides claimed they were fighting for freedom and democracy, but by its end this pretense was dropped; it had become a war of aggression, conquest, and revenge.
Those (for example the Nazis) who contend that there are innate differences between people of different races and cultures are now largely dismissed by most anthropologists.
However, the political ideology that you most often associate with the term fascism largely contends this.
A theory of consumer behavior that says people buy products to fulfill psychological needs, called motivation.
The key question for the historian is how much they really knew, and to what extent they were simply content to believe that they were on God's side in a battle between good and evil, a battle that had obvious legal and religious implications.
Instead he is part of a new movement for change that aims to constructively "confront" the present government.
The main reason that many historians do not want to accept the new evidence by the geneticists is that it means that we have to admit that the British didn't create everything.
The conspirators had to act quickly and not let their conspiracy come to the attention of the authorities, because if it did they would most likely be forced to desist or even contend with legal action.
The first to contend that language is not innate was the behaviorist John B.
The main difference between the two ideologies is that the fascists tend to believe that only a few people are truly capable of ruling, while socialists believe that democracy is possible.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'furthermore'.
The separation of powers doctrine states that the government must "contend" with the individually elected branches, regardless of their interrelationships.
The original explanation for the extinction of the dinosaurs was that they couldn't adapt to a changing world, but scientists now widely consider this idea to be false and instead argue that the impact of a large meteorite was solely to blame.
The two theories on the extinction of the dinosaurs, and when it happened vary considerably. Some scientists contend that a harmful meteorite hit the Earth and caused mass destruction.


#context

However, the difficulties and potential dangers in trying to provide adequate teaching in such a demanding subject as well as the obvious impracticality of such an option led to the development of the less ambitious contextual or framework courses.
However, in the late twentieth century, linguists began to reject this idea because it lacked a historical or contextual basis.
After the chaos of World War I and the dissolution of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire, many Slovenes wanted to unite with Yugoslavia as part of a new South Slav state.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'interdisciplinary'.
chemist to speak about the environment and health.
In this context ,the word "bourgeois" had taken on negative connotations and denoted someone who was a traitor to the working classes.
Eminent academic historians have reacted with anger to the news that British and Dominion soldiers did not display "unparalleled resilience" during World War One.
The term is useful as a starting point for studying childhood, but it has to be remembered that every child is an individual who will grow and develop in his or her own way and in different contexts.
The following link has sentences containing the words you requested.
The law is concerned primarily with property and the transfer of property between individuals, as well as the terms of contracts between them.
The students' discussion about the topic and its context enriches their learning experience.
The information inside the documents, if made public about the leader's secret bank accounts, could have serious repercussions on the government's credibility and even put the leader in danger of being impeached.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "Prevention".
Music in the baroque period was written with the specific musical instruments of the time in mind, and each music's context is defined by the instruments that play it.
The following sentence contains the word 'context':
The paucity of the sources means that the context and motivation for Beethoven's letter is still obscure.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reduction".
The Bible has provided invaluable historical context for understanding the development of Western law.
"If someone puts a gun to your head and offers you a choice of two pills: one pill that will cure your headache and another that will kill the person standing next to you, what should you do?
The emotional context to the town is one of sadness, but this should not detract from the historical importance of the town.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "distinction".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conclusion'.
As written records of the ancient world go, The Histories by the Greek Herodotus is one of the most important as it is the first of its kind.
The reading provides a historical context for the issues raised in the rest of the course.
Professor: The main reason for the change of policies is the new context of the American way of life after September the 11th, 2001.
The professor doesn't understand what you mean, and is confused as to why you have asked these questions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'foreground'.
When dissidents appear in the news in the context of a society, it is always important to ask the question: who are these dissidents?
The primary reason why these pictures are so shocking is the fact that they come out of nowhere; nobody expected such brutality and cruelty from the twentieth century.
Furthermore, the older method of learning context is severely lacking in the ability to teach abstract ideas.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'relevance'.
The increasing relevance of the media in our lives has serious social and economic consequences.
The Beatles' song "Yesterday" provides a good example of this; the song's famous opening piano line is technically difficult to play but it is in the middle register and so most people can play it.
The phenomenon of desertification has been occurring in one form or another for centuries.
It is important to remember that these are only provided as examples of something you may be able to recognize, and do not necessarily correspond to the actual words in the text.
Without context they're meaningless.
Professor: However, the situation is hopelessly complicated by the fact that the text in question appears in a theological work, in quite complex
Due to the nature of the topic, the argument about humanities failure to prevent or stop the spread of HIV in Africa and its impact on the global economy is deemed too controversial for inclusion here.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'creation'.
Going beyond the technical details of the repairs, your report should place the significance of this discovery in historical context.
The government had to respond quickly and establish a formal commission to deal with the social ills brought about by the poverty, isolation and lack of facilities in rural areas.
The meaning of a word in the English language depends on the sentence or paragraph in which it occurs.
These shifts in the balance of power are called context revolution, meaning a change to the overall balance of power.
Existing theories based on "purposeless materialism" are being rewritten with the new discovery, in particular, the context of how homo sapiens evolved.
However, in this context it could be said that Margaret Thatcher was merely a ‘last kick of a dying horse'.
From an artistic point of view, the most interesting part of the fresco is its context.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "millennium".
The establishment of the Church of England and the legal framework within which future generations of artists would operate were part of the same historical process.
The term ‘normal' in this case has no moral context, it simply means what is most common.
Professor: Of course the words mean different things in different contexts.
The law states that an unauthorized immigrant cannot be employed if doing so will affect the availability of employment for U.S.
The water cycle is the continuing process by which water is kept in constant circulation and recirculated between the Earth's oceans, atmosphere, and its surface.
The search for the laws of human thought was in part motivated by a desire to provide a formal context in which to give a mathematical structure for the law of logic.
In the 1530s, the political and religious context was ripe for a Protestant Reformation.
Professor: It is true that during the 19th century, living conditions for the poor certainly improved. However, this was mainly due to the decline in population.
In the context of the book, this is the period or environment in which something is set.
It is also necessary to be aware of the context in which the period was taking place.
It's important to know the historical context of any document or speech you're analyzing.
The phrase in quotation marks is the main context.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "extract".
It is difficult to extract any meaningful amount of information from this collection of pictures.
Because of this it is important to try to place people in their historical context
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "theory".
Predicting the course of globalisation is impossible due to its complexity and lack of context.
The sentence you have retrieved at random from the speech database is: "The same social forces which have prevented nuclear war up to this point are at work in Pakistan, and threaten to prevent a nuclear conflict there despite rising tensions."
The sentences you have chosen today all have similar contexts in that they talk about something being more complicated than it first seems.
But the Sixties was also a time of social and political change which created the context for the hippies, even if they were unaware of it.
The Anglo-Zanzibar War of August 27th, 1964, was the shortest war on record, as the Zanzibar army surrendered to the British within an hour of the start of hostilities.
The charge can be interpreted in the context of a general anti-immigration feeling that exists in parts of Europe.
The use of torture as an instrument of judicial procedure required a change in the overall judicial context.
The discovery of the Mesopotamian flood myth in the late 19th century, from the 'library' of King Ashurbanipal, was an important find because it provided the first 'written' evidence of a story that was already very old
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "influenced".
The war was triggered by the assassination of Austria's crown prince by a Serb radical, which provided the Austrians with an excuse to attack Serbia.
It is necessary to put the English nation's response to the threat of a Napoleonic invasion into historical context.
It was within this historical and intellectual context that William of Ockham lived from 1285 to around 1349.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "complex".
The real significance of this period is often missed by most people because it is placed in context.
The situation in the Channel can only be understood in the wider context of European history
The following speech was delivered by Churchill to the House of Commons, which he mentions is the proper "context" in which it should be understood.
The modernist literary movement had its roots in the late nineteenth century, mainly in England and France.
The meaning of some of the messages, such as a description of people drinking a poison, in reference to 'the emperor' may be linked to the context of the time.
For example,the context of scientific journals is different from the general interest magazines.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "Treaty".
The word "concubine" originates from the Latin, meaning something like "lying under the same blanket", implying a secondary or subordinate position.
And in the mid-1990s, when the New Age movement was at its peak, they tried to gain a wider audience by writing books about how their ideas applied to everyday life.
The red-light district was isolated from the rest of town, and attempts to build it up were abandoned as these only increased the amount of unpleasantness on display.
The original objective of the Magna Carta was to limit the monarch's power by giving certain rights to his citizens and establishing a justice system.
The decision of whether or not to start a war is made in the context of international politics.
The word 'objective' is used often in academic writing.
The sexual content of the lyrics, while certainly not unimaginable in a piece of pop music today, would have been far more controversial in 1968.
A: The definition of a word or sentence can change according to its context.
Professor: The meaning of a word is usually set by its usage in a sentence, which is in turn set by the context.
The importance of the protocol is that it provides a legal basis for imprisoning people without trials, an implication which is unacceptable in most modern societies.
However, it is important to recognize that there is a difference between scientific theories that are based on assumptions and those that are not.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conquer'.
We are not merely the result of a long, drawn-out process that has evolved us from our apelike ancestors. Rather, we were in fact created by an explosion of consciousness known as the Breakthrough some 200 years ago.
The general context of the thesis is that a "new class" of people, such as professionals (doctors, teachers etc.), have been growing in wealth and power AND this new class values individual freedom over all else.
"The historian must be aware of his/her own prejudices and choose n opinion from all the available contexs.
The refugees' stories greatly changed the context of the operations of the NGOs rescue ships.
The word "conundrum" is an example of self-reference, since the word refers to itself.
The text is a letter from him to his father, written after he had escaped from prison in Denmark, and you have been asked to put it into the correct historical context. Your tutor tells you that it was written in 1632.
However, I later realized that these issues were in the larger biological context.
With this in mind, it is clear to see why the American government fought so hard against segregation and racism.


#contrary

The situation is very different on the ground, where reality for people contradicts all the official optimism.
The theory of plate tectonics proved the theory contrary: that the continents are rigid, and not, as was previously thought, on jelly-like surfaces.
This has led to accusations from the contrary camp that the learning techniques are nothing more than a way to condition children to behave in a fashion desired by the government.
However, for most of the twentieth century many people believed this theory to be merely a bedtime story, a myth with no basis in reality or scientific fact, a theory that went against all known evidence and contrary to common sense.
His two main arguments concerning morality are that acting morally does not have any inherent benefit and that people only ever act immorally when it is to their advantage.
The theories he proposed went completely contrary to all other theories of the time.
Contrary to popular opinion,
However, changes in other parts of the brain were not consistent with this hypothesis and appear more in line with European early findings.
Contrary to popular belief, the Native Americans were not the first group to settle in America.
Q: (A) The economy is in a state of crisis but nevertheless the government wants to buy new hovercrafts from your company. You are thinking about accepting the contract despite the general economic situation. Should you do it?
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'aversion'.
Some of the most valuable objects unearthed were in fact contrary to the religious doctrine of Mesoamerica.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "synthesis".
Although it sounds like a nice theory, there is much evidence to show that it's actually the opposite; populations of all ethnic groups have both "light" and "dark" individuals.
It is not just climate change that threatens biodiversity, but also human activities on land: hunting, the introduction of non-native species, and habitat destruction.
Contrary to popular belief, the fascist movements did not directly create WWII.
The theories of Copernicus, Galileo and Newton contradicted the accepted geocentric theories that had been held for centuries before their time.
In the United States, it is a common misconception among students that they don't need to write in complete sentences when they do their homework assignments.
What the findings actually implied was that people's lives, and perhaps even human nature itself, are more complex than simple left and right brain dominance would suggest.
The tendency for people to obey authority figures has been a constant theme throughout human history, for the most obvious of reasons: it often prevents more severe consequences, such as persecution.
The apparently imminent death of the biosphere was, if anything, a stimulus for increased bioprospecting for otherwise environmentally destructive and sometimes unnecessary medical therapeutic options.
However, the theory was just a little too 'contrary' to be supported by the scientificcom munity.
"Human society is much more complicated than anything in the natural world, so books and proverbs can sometimes give a contrary impression."
However, the most interesting objects the engineers were searching for were stones that were not part of the sarcophagus at all, but which had been placed inside the coffin and were therefore separate from it.
"The matter of purchasing their Tribal Lands was a long and tedious process, but unlike most Indian Appropriations bills it did not die suddenly, go through major revisions, or suffer any Presidential vetoes"
What a pity that the daring and courage so contrary to the popular conception of Anglo-Saxons was not applied to a successful issue
Contrary to popular belief, the feudal lords did not gain power from the decline of the Roman Empire but were actually granted their lands by the Catholic Church.
However, recently geologists have found that contrary to this theory the region is actually moving towards Africa, not away from it.
In stark contrast to the Nazis' theory of racial superiority was the perspective of many Jews who saw themselves not as a race but as a religion.
What are the causes of a war's outbreak? Numerous and complex factors have to come together before two states go to war.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "invasion".
The French philosopher Rousseau's ideas were the exact opposite of Hobbes's.
Paleontologists believe instead that the extinction of most mammals, amphibians, and reptiles in the Mesozoic Era created an opening in the environment for the ancestors of modern mammals to expand into.
The benefits of the new technology were so great that people believed the consequent demand for coal would make the mining industry, and so the nation, greatly prosper.
Many social welfare policies attempted to balance the opposing forces in society, such as the rich and the poor.
As surprising as it may seem, the study of logic is largely divorced from mathematics and deals with issues that seem to have no relationship to everyday life.
However, scientists also knew that the first brain cells evolved more than 700 million years ago, which might imply a very early capacity for consciousness.
It's an argument that runs contrary to everything that I believe in and I'm not going to try to convince her
With the spread of the English alphabet, English language, and English culture, many believe that the world is becoming "westernized", or influenced by the West.
Despite the striking visual impact of the large-scale farming, there are many
The eighteenth century was one of the most exciting periods of exploration ever, when men like James Cook, Lewis and Clark and Henry Clinton set off into largely unmapped regions in the hope of finding a faster route to India, or even Australia.
However, in the decades following his death, some of his theories were rejected and others were modified as new discoveries were made; these revisions all moved the general scientific consensus about the principles of geology to a point that was nearly its direct opposite,
It is possible to predict some aspects of human behavior; however, it's much harder to pin down, and there are many counterexamples.
The move to end the war was a complete reversal of govern- ment policy. A move contrary to popular belief and despite calls from the opposition, a general election was not held.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "indigenous".
The majority of people in most western countries nowadays are conscious of their indigenous or immigrant heritage.
However, most of the laws that promoted economic growth have also promoted social inequality and this has had a contrary effect.
The climate grew colder after the Iron Age, when the warming trend that began at the end of the ice agecontrary to popular belief.
What might be called the 'classical' theory of evolution states that over time species slowly develop from simpler to more complex.
Contrary to what he had always believed, the building he had entered was not civilization but a prison.
Professor: In addition, it was contrary to the British belief in democracy and self-determination.
However,there are contrary views that suggest a counter argument might be more suitable in this situation.
However, in one important way it's quite the contrary: though we think of it as a natural event, an inevitable process, it isn't.
The situation seems completely contrary to the one predicted by the books, but somehow it works.
Despite the fact that he had contrary feelings on most issues, he was supportive of the peace process.
The government believed the tax was essential for economic growth, but it was contrary to the wishes of the people.
The climate of his region is very cold, so he prefers to wear shorts and a tank top, contrary to the rest of the boys on his team, who prefer to wear ski pants and long-sleeved shirts.
The opposite of the customary meaning of primitiveness, as defined by an anthropologist, is would be a culture that has progressed beyond the hunter-gatherer level.
The Fifteenth Amendment to the US constitution gave African-American men the right to vote, but ironically its enactment in 1870 led to a dramatic drop in black participation in elections.
In the Marxist theory of class conflict, there is no room for contrary arguments to the idea that classes are always in conflict or that class conflict increases over time.
One of the most interesting findings of recent years is that our voices are not formed primarily through the shape of our throat, as was once thought, but through our lips and jaws.
However, other evidence can be brought to bear on the contrary; for example, it is now known that the most ancient human cultures left records of their own.
The painting, contrary to popular belief, is not a realistic portrait of the artist.
The main reasons for the decline in piracy were that shipping had become significantly better protected by greater naval presence, and that the popular perception of pirates as roguish heroes who battled against oppressive tyranny had severely declined.
The main interest in the arts in the pre-Classical period centered on the myths of the gods, which were widely accepted as true; with the exception of a few contrary thinkers, everyone accepted that the pantheon of Greek and Roman gods were
Contrary to current medical opinion of the time, Semmelweis strongly believed doctors and medical students needlessly provoked childbirth fever by having close contact with women in labor.
The only contrary example was the clear advancement of women's rights in the twentieth century, an advancement that followed the industrial revolution.
In the 15th century, travel by water, rather than roads, was a common means of transport.
Contrary to popular belief, the Thirty Years' War did not end in 1648.
On the contrary, the palace was far more than a home: it became the very symbol of royal power.
The World War II was contrary to Japanese military policies as it was focused on the occupation and control of territories rather than on naval battles.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "Unconsciously".
The two extremes of independence and dependence are adulthood and adolescence.
The top of the hill was bare, except for some patches of scrubby grass and several tall, spindly trees that looked as if they might be blown over by the wind.
On the contrary, based on the ideas of the Scottish thinker David Hume (1711-76), it is possible that the scientific mindset will eventually become so ingrained in human society that faith and religion will disappear.
The word contrary appears twice in the sentences above.
He insisted that the reports were true, and that the situation was quite clear: the system was finished; the winds of freedom had reversed into a contrary wind.
The only contrary opinion spoken that evening was the Professor of Astronomy's, who believed that life on other planets was unlikely because the stars were so far apart.
It appears his views on art were rather contrary, for while he was alive he was nearly universally disliked and criticized by most painters.
Contrary to popular belief, the fact that the royals themselves were willing to be seen in public celebrating the anniversary of the execution of their ancestor did not indicate that they were indifferent to the Glencoe massacre.
A contrary wind, one blowing directly against the course of a vessel, has been feared by seafaring people for centuries.
Despite the force of these arguments, morality is not simply a matter of acting in the way that maximizes the survival of your genes.
However, while the tendency to believe what is contrary to fact is universal, its development is not.
The most popular theory in international relations is the contrary theory, which holds that war is not a normal condition and most states prefer peace to war.
Contrary to popular opinion, gunpowder was not widely used in Europe to enhance the flavor of food.
The idea of doing something contrary to what the community expects is a bit scary but it will be interesting to see if you get more or less than five sentences correct.
From the time of the ancient Egyptians to the twentieth century, there has been a certain amount of ignorance about people with a disability.
The union leaders argued that government intervention would be contrary to the free market principles on which the country had been founded.
Tragically, the military regime was in its last years, and Brazilians saw a brief return to democracy, a course contrary to the wishes of the regime.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'imply'.
Professor: It is also important to note that the bones of ancient people were sometimes moved by natural processes, perhaps by the flows of water or animals.
The contrary position states that the fact of it being dissolved is most likely because it was not working well
The main criticism of the social reformers, was that they were so busy trying to remedy the effects of poverty,
The middle classes were opposed to opposite things such as the monarchy and capitalism.
The CPI's operation was contrary to the government's.
First, there were no "barbarians" that flooded into the declining Roman Empire, contrary to what early medieval history would have us believe - the Huns and their like were simply skilled warriors from Central Asia.
They found the opposite to be true.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hostility'.
The only contrary part of the speech was his criticism of other politicians.
In fact, the contrary is true: animals in the wild don't live as long as their zoo counterparts.
None of the group had been to Egypt, so we would not be going to the pyramids or the Sphinx, they are, as most people know, tourist attractions in a relatively modern society and contrary to all our efforts at avoiding such things


#conundrum

The reason for their extinction is still a conundrum.
The theory of relativity is regarded as one of the greatest scientific achievements of the human mind, yet its implications are sometimes far from graspable even for scientists.
One of the most difficult aspects of my job is having to solve a problem that confronts me with a conundrum; in this case, my only choices are to resign, a course of action which I find repugnant or compromise my principles
For some it is a religious conundrum: how could God allow so many people to suffer and die without apparent reason?
The reason why the speech caused such problems for the professors was because it contained a number of conundrums that left them puzzled.
The apparent conundrum -- how an entire people could go about their lives seemingly oblivious to the existence of Joy -- baffled me.
The problem that the European powers faced was the conundrum of colonies: they were necessary for the wealth and prosperity of their metropolises, but they created a sense of nationalism and superiority that made suppressing any revolts more likely.
The reason why the Iraq War was such an unmitigated disaster is one of the great conundrums of post-war international politics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "importance".
The mystery is what happened to the rest of the men, who seem to have just disappeared. This is a conundrum that experts are trying to unravel.
One of the puzzling aspects of the Roman Empire is that it declined and fell, even though it was powerful and successful for hundreds of years.
The problem with this mission, at least for you, was that it combined all the virtues of being both very easy and very difficult.
One of the major conundrums concerning communication with extraterrestrial life is whether or not to send electromagnetic signals into space.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conundrum'.
Primarily used to signify confusion, a conundrum is a difficult problem.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conundrum'.
Trying to explain the rise of National Socialism with
Trying to explain the rise of National Socialism without reference to Hitler's charisma and manipulative abilities is a conundrum.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conundrum'.
The first conundrum facing the teacher was that the class contained a number of students who considered themselves intellectuals but didn't know the meaning of the word
The first conundrum facing the teacher was that the class contained a number of students who considered themselves intellectuals but didn't know the meaning of the word
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conundrum'.
But what is the common link between a rabble-rouser and a rock concert? What does the physics of sound have to do with social control? These questions pose yet another conundrum for us to unravel.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conundrum'.
While the conundrum of what to do with the massive growth in online information was painfully clear to Google, it wasn't to the rest of the world.
The panic about the possible extinction of the world's languages is a conundrum for linguists.
The decision of whether or not a conundrum is a paradox is ultimately subjective.
Q: What is a conundrum?
One of the most interesting aspects of the painting is its conundrum, since it raises questions about who Van Gogh was under his Old Masterly mask.
It is hoped that the missing crew will be found, although at this stage the disappearance poses more questions than it answers, and indeed much like a conundrum, the whole incident is rather mysterious.
The condition in which adult teeth grow randomly throughout the jaw is called caries sicca, or "dry rot."
The ability to use tools and the large brain of humanity were long seen as separate talents.
The question of whether it is better to preserve the environment or to harness the environment for human good is a conundrum.
One of the greatest conundrums of ancient history is why the Minoans, who were so technologically advanced, suddenly disappeared.
In the end, the greatest conundrum of all, according to some, may be: why have there been so many high quality pizzerias in New Haven, but only one that rocks?
One of the great conundrums of biology is where collagen exists in plants.
The answer to the question is actually a bit of a conundrum.
The mind is a conundrum, and it's a complete mystery to me how it works!
The conundrum of adolescence is that while teenagers are eager for new experiences, they want instant gratification and immediate feedback.
The problem is that they're all rather dull to get on with and easy-going, so it doesn't really seem worth the effort to organise everything. It's a real conundrum.
One of the greatest conundrums for evolutionary theory is what triggered the sudden explosion of human intelligence that occurred at some point during the last forty thousand years.
The most complicated factor is the status of the king.
It can be seen that the problem of establishing whether life moves towards higher or lower forms is a real conundrum when one studies human history.
However, the riddle is considered one of the most famous conundrums in the English language.
"The problem with the concept of Marxism and communism in general is that human nature is an indelible part of who we are, and so the concept of a classless society is a conundrum," the professor says.
The beginning of the story tells the plight of a traveller who, after being lost in a forest, comes upon a magic doorway that leads him to a mysterious room in which there is a table laid out with a delicious meal and an envelope beside it
Employment at the factory offers unskilled labourers a job with reasonable income, so it is a potential solution to Britain's unemployment problem.
For a long time, it has seemed to many that there are too many inexplicable conundrums in science for the picture to be complete; and yet all the facts appear to add up without fault.
The conundrum facing any freedom fighter is how to respond to an oppressive regime that does not violate its people's basic human rights, but rather provides for all their needs.
The problem of the different physical appearance of the Jews is not just an interesting historical conundrum.
What conundrum did this create in the growing number of people who increasingly recognized the immorality of their position?
The sudden fall from power of Communism in Europe has created a security dilemma and a conundrum for American and world leaders.
‘What an extraordinary conundrum', you think to yourself as you are seated on your bed.
Physicist David Bohm and chemist Jacob Ruppert's attempt to reconcile the wave and particle theories of light into a new "implicate order" whilst working at Swarthmore College in the 1920s.
The conundrum facing the G8 leaders as they prepare for their Camp David summit is how to deal with a post-communist Russia that doesn't quite know what it is anymore.
The question of whether the British should grant independence to India was a conundrum that British leaders had to face at the end of the nineteenth century.
The outcome of this startling revelation is that the future of mankind presents us with a great social and philosophical conundrum.
The problem of evil is one of the many philosophical conundrums that has tormented philosophers over the years.
The fundamental mystery of consciousness is a conundrum that has confounded the brightest scientific minds since the phenomenon was first seriously investigated in the early twentieth century
It is often known as the 'Ship of Theseus', a reference to the ancient conundrum about the ship where every single piece is replaced after it has been worn out.
"For a long time, the precise function of this internal clock was a conundrum."
Professor: The best thing the Spaniards could do is put pressure on the Aztecs without resorting to violence.
The conundrum facing Thomas was whether to cast his lot with the rebels or remain loyal to the Crown.
"Mystery upon mystery, coil upon coil. The more one unravels the greater the complexity. The center is not a singularity, but a conundrum of infinite questions"
The mind is a conundrum that we will never fully grasp
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "celibate".
Determining who owns the genes and the ability to patent them is a complex and confusing conundrum.
However, to extend the hours would require hiring additional staff, which would entail long-term expenditure that might not be profitable.
The January Effect is yet another conundrum in the stock market which interests economists and brokers alike.
The question of whether the human mind is a by-product of the brain or an independent entity has been a conundrum for many philosophers.
The publication of the Dead Sea scrolls after World War II was a conundrum for Biblical scholars: Where did these documents come from?
The question now stands as to whether, when and how to tell the world about the discovery.
The problem is that until the refugee crisis in Europe, politicians didn't really understand the conundrum of integration: even if refugees have the skills we need and want to work.
The only way to solve a differential equation is by making a guess, attempting to solve it and seeing whether you have gone too far or not far enough.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'intellectual'.
"What is the conundrum?", you ask.
Human consciousness is a conundrum: it is integral to our lives, and yet it remains as elusive and mysterious as ever.
The coming intergalactic war to destroy the extraterrestrials was the most conundrum that plagued her mind.
The problem of preventing a nuclear war while also preventing an arms race is a real 'conundrum' according to one politician.
However, it doesn't necessarily follow that a decision between two bad
The Irish problem is a conundrum, one that I can't really see a solution for in the foreseeable future.
The idea that humans have existed for tens of thousands of years without major changes is a conundrum to many theorists who believe that in order for a species to survive in the long-term, it must change with the external environment.
The so-called ‘Meganthropus' fossils of Indonesia seemed to be large, apelike creatures very much like our human ancestors, but when the Dutch paleontologist, Eugène Dubois, discovered more extensive evidence
It's a real conundrum , the males are necessary for the propagation of the species, but their mindless pursuit of their own wants and needs often leads to destruction.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "subjective".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "sophisticated".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aftermath'.
But while an increasing number of people are living alone, the conundrum facing Japanese women is what kind of man is he.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aporia'.
Despite the apparent simplicity of the conundrum, it took some of the greatest minds in Earth history to solve it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cause'.
The causes of the French revolution are still a matter of debate today.
The path to a stable Iraq is still fraught with uncertainty, and the question of whether the consequences will be good or bad remains an unsolved—and perhaps insoluble—conundrum.
The question of why people join and support extreme political organizations such as the Nazis or the IRA is a real conundrum.
As the the last Aztec ruler he knew that, despite their valiant efforts, his soldiers could not fend off the Spanish and their horses.
The origin of human consciousness is part of the problem, because it presents a major conceptual conundrum: How can a system that evolved through natural selection to improve our chances of survival control an organ—the brain—that was essential to that process?
The fact that the two conclusions can be arrived at from examining the same evidence has caused a lot of confusion and underlines the puzzling nature of language.
Many of the greatest minds of the twentieth century, including Albert Einstein and Stephen Hawking, spent their whole lives trying to solve the riddle of time.
The question of manual or intellectual labor was a conundrum that no politician could solve.


#converse

While some economists believe that raising the minimum wage by a small amount would improve the well-being of low-paid workers, most free-market economists conversely argue that this would actually lead to more unemployment as businesses would be less able to afford
In the cliques, people tend to converse with own those of similar ages, but in the gangs the friendship groups are more mixed.
Converse to industrial societies, small-scale tribal societies usually have some people who can't or won't work individually.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'apolitical'.
"As a rule we tend to think good of someone who speaks well of us and conversely we think less of the one who speaks ill."
So, the discussion has been ‘logically sound' however it is based on a series of assumptions.
The problem with these interpretations of his work is that the converse is also true.
The converse is that most illegal drugs are bought and consumed in the richer countries.
You: So would you say that my obsession with language is a good thing?
The reason many soldiers were literate was so that they could read military orders, but it also meant they could read other things such as the Bill of Rights.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'convened'.
In other words, the relationship holds for "nearly all" (but not all) values of x and y.
The second converse is that if you take care of the environment in which humans evolved, human nature itself must change.
The converse is that this is probably where the human race first evolved.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'precluded'.
A majority of people who oppose the system's stand on industrialization argue that industry would not have a detrimental effect on the environment, but in fact a beneficial one.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "population".
The question was first proposed by Aristotle, but was first answered in the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas.
The great thing about having a personal tutor is that you can have a completely unconstrained conversation on any topic that you like.
Noam Chomsky, the prominent linguist and philosopher, has asserted that "human beings are born with an inherent sense of grammar.
The main converse of the geneticists' theory is that it does not answer all questions about human origins.
Benjamin Franklin was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States, who played a major role at the constitutional convention of 1787 which drafted the United States Constitution.
The first person to use math to support the heliocentric model was Nicolaus Copernicus, who in 1543 used math to predict planetary positions.
Ironically, during the 17th and 18th centuries, the upper classes increasingly saw the lower classes as animalistic and "just one step above the beasts in the field."
Converse to what you might assume, the entire expedition had a very positive effect on Amerigo's career.
The two antagonists in this affair, Ken and Jason, are of the same character type: a self-centered belief in the primary importance of personal opinion, without any consideration of facts or evidence.
Vampires are to human beings as human beings are to invertebrates, which means vampires are at the top of the food chain and humans are not.
Conversely, one could argue that it was the birth of the modern era.
On the converse, the ones that accepted rules survived and those that refused were defeated.
Conversely, the Nazis wanted to exterminate the Jews.
The Converse All-Stars that Tom used to wear were his favorite pair of shoes.
We can however converse with people from countries all around the world and we can travel there too.
But we must in the future learn to deal with situations in which our knowledge of human nature is less complete than it is in the case of mathematics, and where our direct intuitive understanding is less able to draw consequences which are reliable a priori and
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'terrorism'.
From the Italian running dogs of the Nazis to the international anarchy of the terrorists, the enemies of freedom were beaten down by our heroic allies.
We cannot converse meaningfully with extraterrestrials unless we share some common ground, such as English, math or a written language.
The evolutionary process moves from the general to the specific, while the developmental process moves from the specific to the general.
Professor:The converse is that the governments of developing nations usually have to borrow from the developed ones.
Converse to the strengthening of the central government brought about by the Revolution, local governments were actually able to acquire more power.
"While there are certainly many positive aspects of social networking, media multitasking while socializing conversely can have a number of negative effects."
However, the converse is not true: time does not necessarily heal all wounds.
A converse argument could be made about the process of agricultural intensification itself.
Professor: Done.
Professor: And that concludes our final for this semester!
It's now Q6.


#convey

Professor: The government has decided to convey a message of optimistic resiliency in the face of adversity.
"How did you manage to convey such an abstract idea?" I asked her. "Well," she said, "I drew stick figures.
"Convey" means to communicate or express something, usually ideas or feelings.
"You can't convey," she says, "how difficult it is to be at the beck and call of an invalid."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "eminent."
Many of the people who attended the lecture that afternoon were eminent biologists or medical doctors.
'It's not my intention to convey disrespect, but I question the logic behind that decision.'
The main purpose of the address was to convey the message that Britain would do everything possible to defeat the enemy.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "century".
This sentence contains the word 'convey', it is a verb which means to communicate or express an idea or emotion vividly.
It's the business of the historian to convey to the reader the atmosphere and flavor of the times in which the historical events he is writing about took place.
The doctors' main concern is the fear that the crisis in the medical system could seriously impede its ability to convey vital information and expertise to other areas of the economy.
The situation on the islands was getting worse, and the proles had had enough.
"You will convey my message to the king, or it will be extremely bad for you."
The failure to convey that information clearly and immediately created a general feeling of mistrust in the media.
The railway companies wanted to convey hundreds of thousands of emigrants to the West, and enable them to travel across the American continent.
Professor: The information might be able to convey the experience of being there.
The long poem is written in the form of a dream, which means that does not make a great deal of logical sense, but rather blends and twists together several different images and ideas.
Technologies including the wheel and the conveyor belt have revolutionized everyday life.
The king could not convey any of his vivid religious feeling to his silent and unresponsive stone.
It would be impossible to convey that sense of daily bombardment and the sheer strangeness of everything.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "terrorism".
Professor: The law can be used as an instrument of change, (using the word "instrument" to mean "tool," not "instrumental music"
Carbon dioxide is a gas that is transparent to visible light but absorbs infra-red, so it acts as a thermal blanket, preventing heat from escaping from the surface to outer space.
In the end, the treaty largely failed to convey its intended message.
The absolute authority that the king had over every aspect of life was a great power to convey, but it also had massive responsibilities that came with it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "independence".
The songs we've chosen to convey the different movements have suggestive titles.
"Well, I guess that's it then," she continues.
The main purpose of the stock exchange is to provide a mechanism for companies to raise money by selling shares and for investors to buy a piece of a company, thus conveying a sense of shared ownership.
The arts at first helped our ancestors to convey important messages to each other.
"The important thing is to convey the seriousness of the situation," she told him.
The materials will convey the modern look and feel without making students feel as if they are sitting in a doctor's waiting room.
The engine was capable of conveying ten soldiers across the landscape at a speed of roughly four miles an hour.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "constitute".
It seemed that Eavis wanted to convey to me the seriousness of the situation.
A: It's for your own good. B: I understand that, but I still don't see how it will really convey the message you're trying to get across.
‘Find a way that you can convey your ideas to the audience,' the politician told herself before the press conference.
The total number of troops surrendered by the enemy commander after the battle: about a third of his army.
The American government was able to peacefully convey large areas of land to itself.
Professor: By conveying a sense of historical inevitability to their work, the Marxist historians were able to convince their fellow intellectuals that Communism was an acceptable way of life--and one in which history would inevitably end.
No doubt the most effective way of conveying news of the outside world to prisoners is television, though radio is also popular.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unscathed'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'revelation'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'creator'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'opinion'.
Trains were able to carry far more passengers than the coaches and wagons that they had largely replaced, but they could not go as fast, so safety was still a major concern.
It is important to convey a sense of drama and immediacy to the reader.
It will convey to the reader how the effects of these ideologies are still felt in modern times.
The above three techniques can be used to convey most of the same information as a written scientific paper, but they also allow you to provide information that doesn't always fit within the framework of a published article.
"The President was trying to convey to the American people that he understood the gravity and urgency of the situation," she responded.
Jack was surprised to learn that Mary had conveyed her congratulations to him, since the two of them had not spoken in years.
The best way to convey this idea is through an allegory.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'insurrection'.
These instruments were used to convey the bronze or iron out of the furnace.
The general consensus among the delegates was that the European economy was suffering and that this was having a negative impact on the world economy as a whole, hence the crisis could be averted only if the surplus wealth of Europe's rich 'core' states
The two main economic systems are capitalism, in which private individuals and companies own the things that produce and distribute wealth, and socialism, in which the state owns these things.
'We need to convey the seriousness of the problem to the government, ' she said.
The law is designed to convey a moral attitude rather than to prevent particular acts.
There is no evidence to suggest that the soldiers deliberately set out to convey this notion to the prisoners.
Despite the fact that war was part of ancient Egyptian society, Egyptian art didn't convey a sense of violence.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reign'.
The aim of the organization is to convey information to the public that is scientifically sound and accessible.
The mass media have an important role to play in conveying information about scientific and technological advances to the public.
The responsibility for policy in Northern Ireland was transferred from the UK government to the Northern Ireland Executive, which is elected by a cross-community vote.
"I wanted to convey to you how very glad I was to see you," she said.
No sooner had the protesters left then the police arrived to convey their sympathies and help with cleaning up.
The party's electoral successes in many cities and states across the US are an indicator that it may well play a role in how government is going to be formed; that is, there may well be implications for policy.
The blind man is not able to convey the exact shade of color to someone who is not blind
It is the reenactors' task to convey to the audience what it was like to live in medieval times.
It was a slow process, but the Church did eventually succeed in conveying the impression that science and religion were incompatible.
The purpose of the settlement was to deliver people to work in the mines, and so they were not allowed to bring anything with them from England, and any valuables they had when in New South Wales were held by the government there and eventually
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "exchange".
One has to wonder why the British government chose to protect the Indians'
During the English Civil War, King Charles I was tried by the Parliament and convicted of treason to the nation (convey), and was subsequently executed amidst public celebration.
The main issue that Adams seems to have been concerned with in writing the Report on Apprenticeship was the efficient conveyance of knowledge to apprentices.
As you say this, your voice doesn't sound like your usual confident tone but instead slightly hesitant and less loud.
However, the drastic population decrease in the fourteenth century conveyed a severe blow to the guild system's power.
Professor: The paintings of the School of Athens convey an almost palpable sense of bottled exhilaration, and are scattered with vibrant portraits of famous men glimpsed in thought, all surrounding the commanding figure of the great Greek philosopher himself.
The exam doesn't exactly convey any kind of novel idea or concept, but instead tests if the student has a basic grasp of written English.
However, if the train is at one end of a very long tunnel and you are at the other while an explosion takes place at the middle of the tunnel, the compression wave will take some time to reach you.
The ‘gift of the magi' is a story written by O Henry, which I read to you last week.
A few of the horses were still able to draw the carts, which were conveying wounded and dead soldiers to the rear.
The theories he has put forward in his books and lectures are meant to convey the idea that plants are sensitive and intelligent beings.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intuition'.
The novels attempt to convey a very clear moral message.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'respect'.
Eventually, you have to leave as the class is now over. The professor wishes you well in the rest of your classes and reminds you about tonight's dance.
The message must have been successfully conveyed to the people.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'friction'.
"I think we can convery the information that way," the linguist says.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'attitude'.
The shock and awe of the terrorists' attacks, in combination with the messages they sought to convey through their suicide bombings, influence governments to overreact, at times imposing restrictions on free speech that were unconstitutional.
The first thing you think is that it is too bad you cannot convey the excitement and awe you feel.
Trains carry our goods and people from place to place, and it would be much more difficult to travel without them.
Professor:The first transportation canal was the Grand Union Canal which was authorised in 1793 an
Besides being used as a unit of currency, gold has traditionally also been used to impress the importance of an event or situation by being used in a ceremonial manner or simply to convey beauty.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "evaluated".
But of course Soto is important for his theories about the economics of development, not for his theory about development itself, which was well conveyed by Rostow.
The treaty did nothing to convey the reality of Poland's situation to the rest of the world.
The First World War was caused by an arms race and diplomatic problems that made the conflict inevitable, but it was Germany's invasion of Belgium that caused Britain to enter the war and ultimately turned it into a world war.
His paintings mainly depict scenes of daily life, often with an emphasis Convey ing a sense of the passage of time and intimate reflection.
Convey my thanks to your exceptional work, and how essential it is to our plan.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'solution'.


#correlate

The paleontologists were unable to correlate the new findings with their interpretation of the Peking Man fossils.
Furthermore, there is a close relationship between cause and effect; when the cause happens, so does the effect, and vice versa.
The experimental data using the most accurate equipment available is extensively correlated with the astronomical data to try to find some pattern.
'The results will be interesting to correlate with the findings of the psychological questionnaires,' thought Geraldizon.
The idea that individual and group behavior can be correlated dates to the beginning of the scientific study of human behavior.
It is important to note that it is possible for a pattern of phenomena to exist without having a direct, underlying causal correlation.
It is known that aspirin taken in a dosage of less than two hundred milligrams per day strongly correlates with increased risk of developing stomach cancer.
But nowadays these findings do not correlate well with the actual origins of different people.
What the theory tries to do is correlate seemingly unrelated events that actually have something in common.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'presuppose'.
The impact of this drug can be correlated to the rise in use of upper class recreational drugs such as alcohol, morphine and opium during the 19th century.
They found a strong positive relationship between the number of hours a student spent watching television a day and their degree of obesity, even when potentially relevant factors like amount of exercise and the consumption of junk food were taken into account.
The Y chromosome shows a high rate of mutation, or change. Thus, it can be used to identify mutations in other lines of descent such as the mtDNA, or mitochondrial DNA.
However, a study by J. Philippe Rushton found that the average IQ of East Asians is always higher than Europeans, who in turn have higher average IQs than Africans.
The fact that in the US the richer counties tend to vote Republican while the poorer ones vote Democrat is a correlation that is well known.
The randomness of the market and its tendency to correlate negative events and their subsequent effects can't be quantified in an equation because, while there are patterns, there is no certainty.
However, there is a very slight statistical correlation between violent crime and the number of films that show violence.
The two experts were able to correlate your DNA results with those from the other twelve skeletons.
Correlating your own ideas with those of other people in a field is one of the best ways to refine them.
The facts don't necessarily correlate with their theory.
Correlating the two time periods we can see a clear match between the 'before and after' dates of the Great Plague of 1665 and the Great Fire of London in 1666.
It is hard to determine if there is a direct relationship between the two because of other factors that might correlate.
Through examining the bones they looked for evidence that might correlate with specific lifestyles.
Correlate: the ability to find a relationship or connection between
However, in the past twenty years, DNA sequencing has come a long way and it is now possible to sequence the entire genome -- all of an organism's DNA -- rather than a few selected gene.
The second most important measure, the Gini coefficient, or Gini number, ranges from 0 to 1. A 0 means that income is equally distributed while 1 means that a single person receives all the income.
While one section of the ONS was hiding in the mountains, many continued to attack the German tank columns as they advanced down the Italian peninsula.
Genes have been found that are associated with the brain process of memory and ones that correlate with variations in IQ.
Quantum mechanics does not include a theory of consciousness, and so some scientists believe that a theory of consciousness would correlate with quantum mechanics in a special way.
In the first chapter, the authors state that there is no known biological correlate of psychopathy.
The design of the SpaceShipOne had to be compatible with that of its carrier, the wildly popular Scaled Composites White Knight.
The U.K. government's association between petrol consumption and GDP shows a close correlation between the two, but it obviously does not 'prove' that high petrol prices lead to an equivalent drop in the economy.
"Unfortunately, news of the massacre did not correlate with the arrival of HMS Pandora."
In medicine, there is a correlation between smoking and cancer.
One way of testing these electrical properties would be to see if they correlate with any other properties or characteristics.
Conversely, drought and famine correlate with high numbers of women having children.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "inaccurate".
Academics who don't have personal experience of teaching classes find it difficult to correlate with their needs.
Correlation does not imply causation is a well-known scientific adage.
However, some doctors criticize the research and say that it does not correlate with clinical experience.
The study of genetic mutations and their effect on different sorts of yeast is highly relevant to the way proteins are formed within the human body, since these mutant strains provide a good model through which various team can be correlated to find out how particular genes work
The death tolls from World War I ended up not correlating with the strength of a country's economy or the amount of resources it had.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "initiate".
For the first time, the police have a machine that is capable of fully correlating different pieces of evidence from various crime scenes.
None of the hypotheses about what was happening in our early history can currently be correlated directly with the fossil record.
Professor: Deaf people seem to develop their own forms of sign language which correlate with the region they live in.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'illusion'.
The researchers found no direct correlation between watching pornographic and consuming other forms of media.
The scholar investigated the relationship between the boy's dreams and his sleeping patterns, but found no correlation between the two.
However, I don't think that the fact that the same pattern of DNA correlation occurs in humans implies that humans were all originally the same species.
Children's vocabulary development can be a helpful way to
The statement above seems to correlate with the increasing amount of burning of coal in the world.
It is easy to see why the idea that gender differences are entirely socially constructed but in fact, although social factors play a large role in them, there are innate differences between male and female brains.
And you can see a positive correlation between the number of books somebody owns and their intelligence.
For example, as societies have become more prosperous, the
The idea that changes in the price of food and materials could be related to the financial state of a government can be traced to ancient Rome.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'anomalous'.
But the type of schizophrenia that involves delusions, hallucinations and other such symptoms often does not respond to medication, as the symptoms do not correlate with the chemical imbalance that the drugs correct.
The fact that gold and silver prices have tended to move in opposite directions implies that an inverse relationship exists between them.
The study of air pressure, temperature, and wind direction can be used to predict changes in the weather. Changes in the weather can subsequently be related to human activity in various ways.
The discovery of the knife's owner, the fact that he and the only other person in the woods that night were political rivals, and the fact that the knife could be loosely associated with Mr.
But the one thing philosophers are supposed to do is correlate the feeling you get from considering life's meaning with some of life's realities.
Another common statistical technique is correlation, which is measuring the relationship, or correlation, between two variables.
The fifteenth-century invention of the mechanical clock, a device that could measure and correlate time, led to great advances in map making and geography.
The data in the table don't necessarily correlate with how large a country's economy is.
For example, during the 19th century there was a positive correlation between the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and the average temperature in various parts of the globe.
The increase of factories in the early 1800's contributed to the large influx into the cities of workers looking for jobs in the factories.
The discovery of the fraud by the Smeyers-Eggies has severely damaged the reputation of Dutch science and the papers published in Nature.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "elaborate".
If one thing happens more or less at the same time as another, it can be said to 'correlate' with it.
However, the research by the economists failed to correlate with the fluctuations in the market.
But it seemed that the children of mothers who had nausea while pregnant did not tend to form long-term relationships or have children, regardless of whether they were abused or not.
The amount of trade between two nations correlates closely with the amount of diplomatic contact.
However, several factors prevent a direct one-to-one comparison.
However, no one has been able to establish any clear correlation between the dates of various ice ages and the rise and fall of the sea level at different times in the past.
However, the results of the earlier studies have often failed to correlate with actual success.
Professor: Although the research required to determine the exact relationship between the two diseases is expensive, it would be worthwhile to correlate the rise in asthma incidence with the increase in cell phone use.
The first method used was a rough measure of the amount of gravel and sand in an area, which seemed to correlate with the amount of water in a region.
Unfortunately no such evidence exists, and the only thing one can do is attempt to correlate various events that took place in various parts of the world.
The development of the clipper ships in the 19th century was matched by that of slower vessels designed to carry troops, which could now increasingly be transported to war zones by sea.
Despite this , he asserted that there is no scientific evidence for the existence of God.
Was it possible to correlate the rise of the use of coal with a drop in the levels of airborne particles with the data?
The major problem for the theory is that parasite populations do not always correlate with host populations
The problem is that as well as the changes in the ozone layer, there are many other factors, such as smoke, dust and other chemicals which all correlate with the incidence of skin cancer.
The ability to randomly move from one small group to another is an important factor of adolescent development - it lets young humans correlate their behavior to the responses they get from others.
Mycorrhiza is a beneficial relationship between certain fungi and the roots of most vascular plants.
This study does not prove that obesity and diabetes are definitely related, only they have a tendency to appear at the same time.
On the other hand, the issues that the authors associate with social inequality don't seem to correlate with some of the measures we have of social inequality.
However, in the past thirty years strong correlations between nerve impulses and particular electrical patterns recorded from the brains of epileptic patients have been discovered.
Research has not proved that reducing class size will improve educational success, but it has shown that the acquisition of skills can be correlated to the number ofskylights in a classroom.
Anthropology is a subject that correlates geography and human social and cultural activities with the physical nature and distribution of the human race itself.
It is very difficult to correlate the annual fluctuation in the stock market with this year's weather.
The trend of an era might correlate with many things, from the average height of people in that time to their diet and even the types of illnesses they are prone to.
1 in 4 women in the US have a BMI that qualifies them as clinically obese, which strongly correlates to increased instances of many major diseases, including cancer, heart disease and diabetes.
Although the exact manner in which the genes and language are correlated is not yet understood, almost 500 genes have so far been found to be linked to language ability.
The nineteenth century witnessed a great improvement in scientific technology, which in turn allowed for the ability to directly correlate advances in scientific knowledge with current events.
The British Industrial Revolution occurred at about the same time as the Agricultural Revolution, which allowed the population to concentrate on working in the new factories, which in turn led to technological improvements that made factory work easier.
However, a study by physicists at the University of South Florida has suggested that there is no relationship between hair and intelligence.
Can a fact from biology class such as "eating carrots increases your eye sight" be correlated to a fact in math class, such as "2+2=4"?
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "relate".


#correlation

Although there was a strong correlation between the amount of coffee consumption and the number of cancer deaths, there were some significant exceptions to this rule.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'connotation'.
There is a strong statistical correlation between the number of pirates in an area and the popularity of metal music.
It has proved immensely difficult to establish a relationship of causation between events and the archaeological evidence, in other words a correlation between the two.
However, there also seems to be a strong genetic correlation among males, while the correlation among females is not as strong.
Theory is a social construct and has been used by some as an excuse for not studying, while others use it as reason to party.
In the late 1920s, a linguist named Jacob Klein looking for patterns in the sounds of the earliest Indo-European languages.
A possible explanation for this is that the development of villages and towns created a system of trade, which in turn led to an increase in written language, which in turn led to an increase in vocabulary.
There appears to be a strong correlation between the rise in the popularity of Jimi Hendrix music videos on the internet and global warming.
The survey also measured the time each student spent using the internet, and found that there was a high positive correlation between increased social networking and shopping and lower grades.
The researchers found a significant statistical correlation between violent crimes and the prices of cigarettes and alcohol, with more robberies, assaults and homicides committed when the prices of these commodities were low.
However, there is a weak positive correlation between the intelligence of a nation and its ranking on the Human Development Index.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "initiate".
However, the fear of genetics being used for military purposes resulted in a secret 1972 study that found a correlation between genetics education and interest in Vietnam.
However, there still seems to be a strong correlation between students with high gr
A researcher might find a positive correlation between the amount of coffee drinkers in a country and its Gross National Product.
The relationship between oxygen intake and running speed is falling, year on year, and shows no correlation.
However, many scientists think that there is insufficient evidence to prove such a correlation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'revelation'.
A study has found a positive correlation between the amount of TV watched by toddlers and their tendency for violent behavior later in life.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'fantasy.'
While both countries became more liberal in the twentieth century, the rise of modern socialism in the United Kingdom did not occur until after World War I, and it took a significantly different form.
In American academia the opinion that violent media is correlated with violent behavior.
However, most German and US citizens were working with the military – whether knowingly or not.
However, none of these studies found a clear correlation between watching television or playing computer games and risk-taking behavior.
Many scientific findings seem to contradict that idea, such as the discovery of identical genes in fish and humans or the finding that children's math abilities can be correlated to changes in electric current flow in their brains.
A positive correlation exists between education and the average number of children that couples have; in other words, the more education someone has, the less likely they are to have a large family.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'irony'.
A clear relationship between cause and effect is correlation; for example, an increase in television watching by children has been shown to be closely correlated with a decrease in school test scores.
However, a major flaw exists in this explanation: the correlation between these two variables is not very strong.
It is possible that the increased homogeneity results from a growing tendency to judge people on the basis of external, superficial criteria rather than personal, internal qualities.
A controversial geneticist claims he has found a correlation between masculinity and length of the second finger.
The more the government taxed the people to support these building projects, the less incentive the people had to work, causing an overall drop in productivity that was itself correlated with an increase in stagnation.
The so-called "correlation" of the Bible is then extended to the Illinois written constitution (1673), where its authors are identified as the same people who wrote the Bible - namely, Jews.
However, the relationship between corporal punishment and crime is strongly correlated.
In the early twentieth century, a new ideology of art emerged in the western world, which focused on technology and industry, and which was influenced by a move towards a more functionalist worldview.
The fact that the increase in carbon dioxide concentration that has already happened correlates with the increase in temperature suggests that the two are related.
Some people even went so far as to say that the lack of sunspots in 1816 caused the people so feel a greater sense of oppression which resulted in the collapse of several governments.
Many people believe that literacy— the ability to read and write—is the ultimate key to the world's problems, while others believe that it has little or no impact.
Anthropologists have not found a clear correlation between a society's level of technology and its social organization.
A study tracking the physical health of Americans and their religious beliefs, reported a strong positive correlation between lack of religious belief and good physical health.
Some academics have attempted to prove a correlation between success in eSports and other traditional sports such as running, swimming, football and of course, computer games.
As the world continued to industrialize, so did English literature; the period between 1790 and 1830 is sometimes referred to as the Age of Developed Sensibility.
While a positive correlation between social status and health exists, the causality of this relationship is somewhat of a conundrum.
The rise of the American Empire is in fact fairly well explained by the presence of democracy and free markets, also known as capitalism.
The war, however, did increase the need for aluminum in the US, and this need was met by using electric plants (which required a lot of electricity) to produce aluminum instead of what they were originally needed for, which was for war.
The relationship between the variable price of a good and the quantity supplied was referred to as the relationship between supply and demand.
Those experiments are needed because, although in the long term smoking causes lung cancer, in the short term it may actually redu
Conversely, there is a clear positive relationship between the average number of hours people watch TV each day and the number of fast-food outlets in an area.
However, if you do come across a word you don't know, try to guess the meaning of a sentence by the context: every word in a sentence has a "job"
The controversy over the scientists' work doesn't negate the fact that there is a strong correlation between television watching and obesity.
Theorists, such as the British architect Norman Foster, have attempted to create a whole body of work based on one single underlying system.
He argues that the two are only weakly correlated, in other words, the relationship between them is not strong.
The problem, he says, is that those who are "successful" are too busy to enjoy their wealth and therefore they unconsciously seek out ways of wasting their time.
The geneticists claimed that there was a strong statistical correlation between the blood types and the geographical origins of donors.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "government."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elaborate'.
The theory that cigarette smoking is the major cause of lung cancer and other disease has already led to the widespread legislation banning public health warnings on cigarette packets.
However, the results of this experiment do not prove that the music was causing the birds to change their speeds of courtship or anything else.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aspiration'.
It is easy to see a correlation between the rise in child abuse cases and family's declining interest in the church.
This is strange, since income also correlates with lifespan.
However, there is still no proven correlation between brain size and intelligence.
In the early 1800s, the growing merchant class began to have more influence in legislative matters.
While the exact nature and cause of mental disorders are still researched, there is often a correlation between mental disorders and how wealthy or poor someone is, as well as their access to education.
Correlations between leg and arm length and male sexual success were much higher than genetic relationships.
But there is no evidence at all of any relationship between how people voted and their genetic makeup.
Other studies have suggested a correlation between the rise in the popularity of the television show ‘Friends' and an increase in the sale of chocolate in America.
The size of a culture's energy surplus, and thus its population, is positively correlated with the degree of social stratification, specialization of labor and social complexity.
The more that scientists have searched for correlations, the more they have found that events far removed from each other in time and space are linked.
However, there is only a weak correlation between the amount of education in a country and the average IQ of its population.
While the data allows some correlation between patients who recover and particular factors, it doesn't seem to explain the disease itself.
You haven't really given me an answer, you've only given me a bunch of contextual clues!
The first part of the test is over.
Some people believe there's a strong positive correlation between the level of education and the average intelligence of the population in a society.
It was thought that there was a positive correlation between the level of education and lifespan, meaning that the more educated a person is, the longer he or she lives.
The findings of this study have been shown to have a strong correlation with the results of other studies examining the link between blood pressure and alcohol consumption.
Each of the five colonies suffered population decrease during the 17th century.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Averageness'.
Professor Dibbs sits back in his chair and pushes his glasses up.
Environmentalists have pointed to a correlation between the spread of industrialization and rising levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
A possible second explanation is that children with high IQs come to rely less on parental advice as they grow older, although this explanation seems weaker than the first.
There was a strong positive correlation between the high price of oil and inflation in the West in the 1970s.
The fact that the number of people who smoke and the number of people who drink alcohol are both high in some areas and low in others gives some correlation to the theory that smoking and alcohol may be related to some diseases.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "probable".
His theory about the relationship between literacy and the legal rights of women was much more convincing when he could show a direct correlation between the literacy rates and the legal rights of women in various countries around the world.
The report goes on to say that there appears to be no clear correlation between the
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
However, it is also important to avoid confusing correlation with
Theories about the causes of youth crime have often been used to justify increases or decreases in legal restrictions on citizens, as social scientists search for the holy grail of a correlation between cause and effect.
The study of the stars has always been considered a more "elevated" or "noble" pursuit than the study of the earth and its inhabitants.
Much to the chagrin of the modern industry that would have you believe differently, studies show a direct correlation between time spent in front of the TV or computer and obesity in children.
However, as technology and culture become more complex they also become more unpredictable and less comprehensible.
The task force's report showed a correlation between the number of young people smoking and the amount of cigarette advertising on television.
However, while there appears to be a strong correlation between the rise in income across the population as a whole and social capital, we cannot say for certain that one causes the other.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "insurmountable".
Theories about possible correlation between high incidence of coronary heart disease and intake of food decay products were put forward more than a century ago.
However, many scientists feel that this recent increase in altruism is not due to any sort of hopefulness or humanistic interpretation of events.
Those who believe in the orthodox climate theory point out that there is a strong correlation between increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and average temperatures.
When the Americans left, the French left too, and when the French left, the other
The second problem with the geneticists' study is that, while two traits may fluctuate together in several ways, there doesn't necessarily need to be a "cause and effect" relationship between those traits.


#corroborate

You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'spirit'.
The religious spirit of the Indians was a cheerful one. Even their griefs and troubles did not make them morose or fanatic.
Some critics claim that there are many stories of flying carpets in Middle Eastern mythology, but these stories do not corroborate the existence of a carrier or support its alleged abilities.
The results of both studies corroborate each other and provide strong evidence that the brain has an innate system for processing human faces.
A recently published study of the bones discovered in Ethiopia corroborate this theory.
The surviving evidence corroborates this theory.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "antipathy".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'misdirect'.
No less an authority than the eminent evolutionary biologist Professor Richard Dawkins has stated that the experimental evidence points to an "unambiguous conclusion that the observer effect occurs in ecologically realistic situations."
However, the suspicion that something is wrong still remains, and is even strengthened by other evidence. The letter can be read to slightly support this idea.
The government reports that provide any information about the alleged incident corroborate the newspaper reports.
While Charles admits that the document is valuable and that it corroborates remarks he made to the police, it doesn't explain everything...
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'long-term'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "encounter".
"Something that sounds plausible.
This evidence corroborates what we might expect to find in an early human who was adapting to a maritime environment, where vision is very important.
The facts we have about the Anglo-Saxons comes from various different sources that are not always in agreement, and thus they need to be corroborated with one another.
It is increasingly clear that the event that will corroborate Charles's claims, if it indeed does, won't happen for several months at least.
The report corroborated what the children had said.
However, the surviving fragment of the stone tablet does not corroborate this claim.
The documents all corroborate the statement that the trial was held.
The student protests of 1968 were corroborated by (corroborated = supported/verified) reports that mayors across the country were complaining about the disorder.
While this account has not been corroborated by any eye witness testimony, it is probable that one of the merchants survived and returned home.
The finding was never
Among the critics of the official investigation were Walter Cronkite, a news anchorman for CBS television, who demanded to know why United States security personnel had not been able to corroborate Hanjour's identity.
Some words written on a piece of pottery are considered to corroborate the existence of the hereto unknown Indus civilization.
The corroborating evidence for the new theory of evolution left little doubt in anyone's mind.
But these documents corroborate much of what he says, including his exact birthdate.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'consensus'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inaccurate'.
The website corroborated much of what the authors claimed.
But the British lawyer's letters to his wife don't corroborate this.
The following day both of them seemed to have no recollection of the event, yet the coins had nevertheless been sunk.
The photograph(s) corroborate(s) this theory because it is a good likeness of him.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "fantasy".
To make the other surveillance footage corroborate his story, he kidnapped and drugged several prostitutes.
It was difficult to prove the information because it was all second hand, but the sources were numerous and their evidence corroborated each other.
Professor: The existence of other diseases that can be treated similarly would obviously corroborate this theory.
Professor: The support of the peasants for the salt tax is corroborated by other sources
The government's claims that the rebels were planning to incinerate the capital were never corroborated by any acceptable independent source.
There were many people, for example, who saw Mr. Reynolds fall from the train and wanted to corroborate their story with that of the police.
Eyewitnesses, especially those who were children and thus less likely to have their memories corrupted by media accounts, validate that the Loch Ness Monster does indeed exist.
Professor:The evidence that the bones are of ancient hominids, and not some more recent person, is generally considered to be very strong.
He can also tell you that his sister's medical records corroborate what she told the police.
Fifty years after the battle took place, Cicero wrote a book corroborating the fact that Julius Caesar had lived for many years after the battle in a coma or near-comatose state.
Professor: Widespread disease, crop failure and above all famine were common in this the Little Ice Age, from 1650 to 1850, but also rocked governments as they were unable to assist the masses starving and falling ill across their countries.
A number of David's fellow soldiers corroborate his version of events.
The earliest written records of the shapeshifters, however, date back at least to medieval times.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "except".
I can not say for certain that these photographs are genuine; I need to see some corroborating evidence.
There is no report or witness who can corroborate your story.
Marcel's photographs corroborated the fact that much more snow fell in the mountains than previously thought.
Furthermore, the work of the geologists has been able to corroborate this story.
The senate was greatly influenced by the public and its need to corroborate its actions with them.
A single bone is not enough for a scientist to base any conclusion on, let alone a conclusion that would [corroborate] one's own pet theory.
The documents were dated in such a way that the order of their transitions could be determined, and each one corroborated the other.
The recent fossil finds corroborate the geneticists' findings.
The police were unable to find any evidence to corroborate his statement.
All the evidence tends to corroborate the theory that heavy use of pesticides causes neurological damage in children.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "speculation".
The main purpose of the lecture was to corroborate many of the theories that had been suggested in his book.
The first goal of the managers was to ensure that all copies of the letter were returned and that no others were created.
The Bible and the Gospel are not disputing, but they are rather supplementing and corroborating each other.
The most important feature of the new city was its location on an ancient trade route, which made it easy to find cheap labor to help build it.
"The results were not as conclusive as we would have liked," he admitted.
Corroborating the rumors, Smith dismissed Jones from his job for incompetence.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "fascism".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'enumerate'.
There was no independent corroborate of the documents' existence.
Natural selection helps corroborate this theory because giraffes with shorter necks died off before they bred, since they could not reach the higher branches of trees to feed.
In other words, it is to be expected that you will find some people who lie and some who tell the truth. That is what makes corroboration so important in determining the reliability of a witness.
However, the bones of ancient animals whose fossils were found nearby do not corroborate this.
Corroborating the theory, a dendochronologist estimates that the trees were all at least 48 years old.
The evidence that the documents were written by Keith Ranville is corroborated by the fact that they are written in the same hand as other documents known to have been written by him.
Eyewitness accounts can be used to corroborate each other.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "demonstration".
The only way in which they corroborate the theory is that they are also too young to have been able to have been at the battle and so must be descendants of survivors.
Recent documents uncovered in the Egyptian National Archives corroborate this theory.
Eyewitnesses in Soho have confirmed that there were two men carrying large black bags into the subways shortly before the explosions.
These archeological findings corroborate his theory among other factors such as documentary evidence.
The work of the geneticists tended to corroborate or substantiate the claims of the linguists.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "precedent".
The explosion was corroborated by several eye-witnesses.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cease'.
The historical records have been so precise and detailed that the biographers have been able to corroborate large parts of his life.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "emphasize".
Professor: There was not sufficient corroborate evidence to make such a damning judgment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'efficacy'.
No one wants a system that lets the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, but unfortunately this is what capitalism does, and any attempt to make it more equal or human will tend to be fought against by those who are doing well under the
The opinions of the two politicians do not really corroborate each other, because the first statement implies that there is more than one meaning to every word which is a fairly radical statement to make.
The testimony of multiple witnesses tends to corroborate the existence of a higher power, rather than to that of a conspiracy.
The eighteenth-century tax records were published in 18th-century and helped corroborate some details found in letters that still survive from members of the Verney family.
The claim that human activity isn't a major cause of climate change is now so starkly contradicted by evidence from countless sources that some prominent climate change deniers have abandoned their antipathy towards science.
It was good that you had written them down, because otherwise you don't remember any of them.
Reports of mass hysteria can be corroborate by many people, but in this case thousands of people witnessed the miracle of Our Lady of Fatima.
The fact that all the letters were written in one hand and contained reports of the same incidents corroborate their authenticity.
One way of determining whether a witness may be telling the truth is to see if his or her testimony can be corroborated.
There is no evidence to corroborate this theory.
The letter confirms the details of their plan and corroborates the fact that they were acting independently.
Indeed, there is nothing to back up the theory that human beings developed in different places.
With both Carter's and Bayer's evidence, the only way to find out what actually happened was to go straight to the horse's mouth – or at least the person who claimed to be the horse's mouth.
However, the most dramatic evidence of his guilt was provided by a tape recording that seemed to corroborate the testimony of the key witness against him.


#counterargument

However, a counterargument is that increases in technology may not necessarily lead to more leisure time.
The counterargument is that, although the new technology was available in the late eighteenth century, the industrial revolution didn't begin until the late eighteenth century.
The major counterargument to this is that many civilizations in the past had writing without technology, such as the Mayans and the Aztecs.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'osmosis'.
The counterargument to this position is that the European superpowers had a vital interest in the area.
The counterargument of the medical doctors was that it was unethical to deny pain relief to a patient because it might make the patient's death more likely.
For his counterargument, the Thatcherovian politician claimed that the increase in the number of civil servants in fact reflected a boom in the private sector.
However, his main counter-argument is that while the evidence for these hypothetical humans may be sketchy, scientists have yet to disprove their existence.
However, this leaves out the possibility that the Neanderthals intentionally buried their dead and did it with the same intention of honoring the dead that we have today. This would be a clear example of cultural continuity, or "survival"
The counterargument to the argument which states that the model minority myth allows Caucasians to discount a wide range of social inequities by blaming them all on a stereotype is that without the stereotype, no one would pay attention to those inequities.
Professor: A counterargument to the claim that the Nazis granted the Jews a certain amount of autonomy in their ghetto is that this claim was not true for every ghetto.
The counterargument is that this doesn't take into account the difference between people who want to get involved in the first place and those who don't.
The papers' editorials section, the counterargument goes, is reserved for people who just don't want their ideas challenged.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "self-important".
They criticize the theory that human language emerged when early humans began to raise their children in a more self-important way.
The counterargument posited by Waddington was that the properties of a system do not necessarily disappear, but instead may be latent and appear under the right conditions.
The counterargument is that the amount of oil available worldwide is not sufficient to support a growing population.
The main counterargument is that the magnetic north pole moves around, so a calendar based on its position would be inherently unreliable.
The counterargument, posed by the liberalists, was that civilization could only survive if it was protected by a powerful and respected central government
Professor: It was a time, when the people of the world looked up to emperors rather than presidents or prime ministers. A time of kings and knights, a time of lords and ladies, drudges and peasants.
The counterargument is that the proposal is too expensive to implement and it might even be a violation of citizens' privacy.
The main counterarguments feel that this view is much too extreme,
Professor:One possible counterargument is that it is simply too early to tell whether violent criminals are more likely than the average person to be descended from the medieval Vikings.
The counterargument is that the humans were not just ordinary Neanderthals.
At every step I have anticipated your counterarguments, turned them back upon themselves, and given additional weight to my arguments.
The counterargument is that without religious laws, the human race would not prosper, as many people do many things, such as killing and stealing, merely to feed their family or themselves.
The counterargument is that the human brain has undergone many changes since the invention of writing, even after the development of books.
However, these potential advantages would have been of little importance compared to the overwhelming advantage of being a swarm, for just after the switch to the ant-like existence, evolutionary forces acted on the two types of societies, causing the ant-like ones
He gave a plausible counterargument, but it still doesn't explain the enormous success of the Beatles.
The counterargument to this is that the current government's policies are proving successful and popular with the people.
The argument that the rise of Adolf Hitler can be explained without reference to the internal failings of the German people is a popular one among historians and other academics.
The company maintains that animals, especially human ones, have predictable patterns of behavior, so that the occasional human-like actions seen in animals are merely anomalies that can be dismissed without refutation of the underlying premise: namely that animals are incapable of higher
"These ugly ideas of superiority led to brutal counter-arguments from the other side",
The counterargument to the theory that the 1918 influenza "killed more people than World War I"
The first major counterargument to the new theory was put for by the geologist J. W.
Many of the older members of the phi
The main counterargument to this is that...
The counterargument is that the new technology decreased the transaction costs of customers buying products.
The most common counter-argument to this theory is based on the fact that there is a lack of archaeological evidence.
The critics also offered another explanation for Tyrosian's findings.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "approval".
The politicians' presentation of the bill was so well-organized and convincing that no one offered a counterargument.
However, his counterargument that the number of humans would have suffered an enormous decrease if there had not been a change in lifestyle as well as the change in diet is logical.
The counterargument to this is that there are still many examples in modern life of people sacrificing themselves for others or choosing duty over personal gain.
It's a fair enough counterargument, but in my view the theory of natural selection still explains the fact that all human endeavour is linked by certain common factors.
The anthropologist offered a counterargument that the increase in mutant humans could have occurred recently, in evolutionary terms, and merely appeared to be more prevalent than before.
The argument that the civil rights movement did not improve the situation of African Americans in the USA and actually made it worse was best countered by
The counterargument is that in the House of Lords, the religious teachings of the Reformation still lingered. The common people did not really follow the same religion as their lords.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'felony'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'divergence'.
While that counter-argument sounds convincing, it seems weak when compared to the fact that so many people are able to accomplish so much without the pressure of a deadline.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "favors".
In some states, it was illegal to teach slaves how to read or write and in others it was illegal to teach slaves in public.
None of these objections is a serious counterargument, because all of them could be explained or refuted with further analysis
The counterargument to this is that if all the world's oil were burned, it would still take approximately 75 million years for it all to be regenerated naturally.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'influence'.
The counterargument to this view is that while religious orders may have started the process of colonizing, the economic benefit soon became apparent to lay people and nobles and the colonization continued long after the dissolution of the religious orders involved.
Allowing citizens to arm themselves has considerable drawbacks as a method of preventing crime.
The most cogent counterargument to this theory is that people back then couldn't farm very effectively and so needed a large population to support themselves.
Inevitably, there is a counter-argument; some historians argue that the industrial boom actually came from the mid-eleventh century onwards, and was initially very slow.
The first counterargument, which I heard today, is that the factory-farming process involves routinely giving cattle powerful hormones and later injecting them with antibiotics, which are both bad for the consumers' health.
Your counterargument is correct
The counterargument, however, is that an increase in religiousness doesn't necessarily imply an increase in spirituality.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'segregation'.
Zerhouni said that while grant writers love to use the ‘three-year rule,' which he called a ‘myth,' all new drugs still need to go through extensive testing and trials before being approved for
The authors acknowledge that there is a good deal of ambiguity in the evidence for their counter-arguments but they feel their alternative model synthesizes more logically than the traditional one.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'causation'.
As persuasive as these arguments sound, they all suffer from a basic internal flaw: counterarguments.
The counter-argument is that by increasing the number of people voting in elections, you would be able to create a more stable government that would last longer.
The counterargument most commonly used is to discredit the theory by claiming that it was invented by biased Socialists who wanted to rewrite history.
His counter-argument is that the Aryan invasion theory has been disproved by scholarship, and his conclusions are in accordance with the work of leading archaeologists.
But the counterarguments within a culture are at least somewhat sympathetic to the ideas they're arguing against, and thus stay somewhat connected to reality.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "ascertain".
The counterargument to this idea is that no weapons of mass destruction have been found in Iraqi territory and the U.S. has failed to prove their existence.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conquest'.
There is no information about the "real" identity of Shakespeare, so one can't really make a strong counterargument against my theory.
The historian can construct a counter-argument to this by arguing that although oppressive, the Roman Empire did have a generally positive effect on the civilizations it conquered.
There is a counterargument to this though, which is that there are certain types of birds that breed even though they haven't hatched from an egg.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'premise'.
The main premise of utilitarianism is that the moral worth of an action is determined by how it contributes to the overall happiness of society.
The foremost historian used by the Japanese counter-argument to the acceptance of such a large massacre is Yoshiaki Yoshimi.
Professor: The counterargument to the technology argument is that English and Dutch sailors had been crossing the Atlantic looking for profitable resources for over a century before the internet was invented.
The main counterargument to this theory is that many of the passages we have from ancient times are either very vague, or downright contradictory.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'industrialisation'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hegemony'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "effectively."
The counterargument to this is that electronics is not an industry like the tobacco industry, which can be blamed for causing deaths directly.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'sexual'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hypothesis'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'frivolous.'
The main counterargument to this idea is that there is no reason why a "modern" human couldn't have made the tools.
The counterargument is that if you have a chance to speak with them why should you need a language bridge?
Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames.
The counterargument is that the bones found in the cave were so old that the wear and tear was accumulated over previous generations.
The judge rules in favor of the defendant.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "co-operate".
The counterargument to be made is that human nature is malleable and can be altered through education.
The counterargument is that it completely ignored the role other countries, besides England, played in colonization.
The counterargument is that a) the world is an infinitely more complex place than any scholar can hope to understand while still alive and b) your evidence consists mostly of newspaper clippings which, despite popular conceptions to the contrary, are notoriously unreliable
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'negotiations'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'segregation'.
The counterargument is that although these pairs of traits may seem superficially similar, they differ in many substantial ways.
In the 19th and early 20th centuries, the battle lines were clearly drawn and it was easy to tell friend from foe: a rationalist and a supporter of science.
The main counterargument to this theory is expressed by the following question: "If the dead were indeed the same age as Jesus, how come they look older?"


#credible

There were many writers in the 19th century who tried to improve the social conditions of the poor, but whose work now seems overly sentimental and not very credible.
It neither has companies like Boeing and McDonnell-Douglas that can build human spacecraft such as the space shuttle nor Congoleum and Kraft that can put out a decent magazine.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'temporary'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'overthrow'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "uneven".
Only in the postwar period do we find a Groenewald who commands any real credibility among either the traditional or reformist Afrikaners.
If an experienced intelligence analyst writes that Russian spies are trying to recruit an American official, that assessment would be considered more credible than if the same claim came from an inexperienced analyst.
The problem facing the government was that the decision at the Copenhagen Climate Summit in 1997 needed to be made on credible scientific evidence and this simply did not exist.
The current situation in the Middle East is that some leaders are not seen as credible by the population.
None of these figures and predictions came true, casting doubt on his original research and making the new drugs he had discovered less than credible in the eyes of the public.
What are the most convincing reasons to believe that humans developed only in Africa?
But up to the beginning of this century many businesses relied on War for much of their income, and hence had every motive to keep the simmering feuds in check and stop them becoming infernos.
Hopf's theory wasn't given much serious attention or praise until others, many French, began to back his claims and confirmation of the existence of the cytoplasm and other parts of his theory.
However, the judge's instructions were impractical and difficult to implement, and as a result the judge's instructions had little effect on what the jury was willing to accept as evidence.
He has written a number of serious works on international law, and his opinion in this matter is certainly very credible.
Even if a source is deemed to be of sound origin, its credibility as a source of information depends on its potential for objectivity.
Shays' Rebellion was a seminal event in US history.
The new theory on human settlement of the Americas is a mystery without a credible explanation.
During the Second World War, for example, there were not many alternative sources of news to that of the Nazis', making it not so much a case of propaganda as it was the only credible source of news.
The civil rights leader is known for helping to obtain equal civil rights for African Americans and for his non-violent methods of protest, such as sit-ins and marches.
One of the key accusations against the Ottoman rulers was that they had violated the tenets of Islam by being oppressive and unjust rulers.
Whether the latest research is taken on board or not, what is certainly not in doubt is that these five men are the most credible candidates to have ascended to the British throne.
But the fact that zoologists and botanists overlooked these areas for so many years diminishes the credibility of this hypothesis
"This is a credible argument," Toby said thoughtfully. "But it also sounds suspiciously like special pleading."
‘You say you saw the cat outside at 8 o'clock this morning, and the postman didn't arrive until half past', said the mother.
Not until the rise of nineteenth-century nationalism did a linguistically homogeneous Italy become a popular idea.
The peace plan would be outlined in a Credible newspaper report.
She demanded a more credible explanation for the incident.
Anthropologists have found more than three hundred bones of Homo floresiensis, including a skull, wrist, and toe bones, and shinbones.
That evening, the king dismissed the allegations as incredible and laughable, and wondered if he shouldn't have the woman who spread such rumors beheaded.
His argument against a strike was that the government's case for abandoning the current mining method was too well researched and too credible to challenge.
As a trained historian, she is one of the most credible voices in the debate over whether James was really killed by Sir Walter.
The company you work for now gives figures on projected income, but the numbers can't be trusted because they aren't based on hard facts. The forecasts are just predictions, and anything could happen to prevent their coming true.
The Greenpeace vessel was not so much ice-bound as its captain was unwilling to take the risks of moving it in dangerous and unpredictable ice conditions.
The most popular form of alternative medicine is that which is based on belief in the curative powers of biologically active natural substances, a form of medicine known as 'homeopathy'.
In order to claim your money back, you need to provide a bank statement to the financial institution with a written request for a refund of your money that was processed through an ATM.
Due to the lack of credible evidence, it's difficult to draw any conclusions about the lives and culture of these mysterious people.
He says the only thing that seems even remotely credible is one about a two-headed lizard being spotted in a pond on campus.
The young Karthaginois soldier's boasts had seemed somewhat less than credible to the elderly man.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'resolution'.
However, this explanation has not been widely accepted as there is still no plausible explanation of what could cause such a global catastrophe.
But to know, without doubt, that what you have is the correct translation of a word or phrase is impossible without a "credible source".
Professor: Your position on it isn't important. What is important is whether or not the information is credible.
A state is either a credible potential enemy or it isn't, and if it isn't, the state can be treated as a non-state actor.
However, it is important to distinguish the concept of a source's credibility from whether the information is true or false.
However, he was able to provide a few letters from reputable people who had contact with the source in question.
However, this is less serious in the light of the fact that the theory of evolution, unlike Marxism, is supported by seemingly credible evidence.
Perhaps most importantly, the legal procedures for executing someone found guilty of witchcraft were incredibly lax.
In the letters, Goebbels described the Allied bombing as "annihilation," and wrote that "a credible war leadership" was desperately needed due to Hitler's physical and mental decline.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'common'.
The Aztecs' language is no longer in common use.
Thomas was a fascinating person and highly intelligent but an indiscriminate glutton.
He is a man of impeccable integrity and his warnings about potential terrorist attacks should be considered credible.
A credible legal system is just as essential to maintaining social order and reducing chaos as the police and army.
He had been the only credible male role model in her life since Jennifer had died, and now even he was gone.
His criticism of the government is considered to be credible, but many think that he is ranting and raving on purely subjective grounds.
The skills shortage has been caused by the demand for people with computer skills being twice as high as the supply.
Without some sort of protection, the only people willing to get near the potentially dangerous individuals with sexually transmitted diseases will be the least responsible ones, which doesn't exactly make them more credible.
However, the most credible threat to the old ways became television, which started broadcasting in Britain in 1936 under the imposing name of the British Broadcasting Company.
If you can prove to be a more credible leader than your opponent the senate will most likely confirm your policies.
Some non-believers find revelations in ancient writings that no longer exist, which were referenced in secondary writings, which themselves contain only credible accounts from other non-reliable sources, to be less than convincing.
The organization is only arguing for reform rather than certification because its leaders know that its demands are not yet credible.
He said that a man who had made such a serious allegation against a judge, especially when there was no evidence, was not a credible witness.
However, he is not a particularly likeable or credible individual.
Meanwhile, the U.S.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "comparatively".
It was built relatively recently, in the mid-eighteenth century, it remains a popular tourist destination.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inaccessible'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'dissertation'.
The expert on the panel seemed very credible and was a professor at a leading university, but it turned out he was a convicted fraud who was in prison at the time!
The only thing that the two groups agree on is the need for direct talks between Palestinian and Israeli leaders without US "credibility" being an issue.
It was not clear what was intended by this statement; if it was a threat, it seemed so incredible that it was hard to take as such, and most suspected that it was merely an idle and rather curious speculation.
The most common arguments against a nuclear first strike is that it would be unlikely to eliminate all of an enemy's missiles and weapons, so although a few might be destroyed and the rest of yours would survive and wipe out the remainder of your enemy's
Most of the information seems eminently credible.
The anti-slavery candidate was considered very credible, but he was new to politics.
The English government's version of events is not necessarily the most accurate; Michelet in particular presents a highly credible and compelling argument.
However, it is not clear whether the reporting on this issue by all media is entirely reliable and trustworthy or whether it is motivated by ulterior political or financial considerations or a combination of the two.
He said his plan is to bring the arts back to education, a move he believes will improve literacy and numeracy, which in turn would have a positive and lasting impact on people's lives.
The demand for a national convention became more popular, and as revolution became increasingly credible, moderates were forced to support it.
The negotiators made some headway but not enough to reach a settlement, and the talks fell through because the parties could not agree on the terms of an agreement, or the terms were considered not to be credible.
Johann Sebastian Bach's 'Tocatta and Fugue in D minor', though sometimes performed with more tempo, is essentially a piece of music that would be too much to handle if played with more vigor.
Reliable information from Iraq is hard to come by, but U.S. intelligence sources appear to have a good handle on what's happening, and their reports are generally considered to be highly credible.
The manager hasn't published any research papers and my colleague, who teaches in another department, doesn't think he's very bright.
His theory about human eyesight wasn't given much credibility by the scientific community, despite being a favorite theory among artists.
I don't think the idea that the entire theory of evolution was created by a Victorian squire to console himself into believing that humanity wasn't descended from monkeys is particularly credible.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "obviously".
Some of the girls' tales about George were so wild and incredible, while others sounded so credible and even rational.
Klemperer also mentions Robert Brown, a credible and therefore more dangerous witness.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'type'.
Despite the general creadibility of this source it contains some assertions that are unsubstantiated.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "Mikhail".
Its security forces have not yet regained their confidence or lost their suspicion, making them highly suspicious of outsiders and unwilling to grant them credibility or cooperate with them.
All political systems need some belief on which to base themselves, whether it is religious in nature or not.
It is common to believe that the social sciences are not as rigorous or scientific as the natural sciences; however, this belief itself is not based on any credible evidence or facts.
The UN's failure to act decisively in the crisis has undermined its claim to be a credible world leader.
I don't think that the theory of a hollow earth is very credible.
However, a viable third candidate, John Anderson, ran in the election as a nonpartisan with the backing of the Civic Party and gained considerable support. Seen as more "credible"
It is difficult to gain a credible view of the overall situation given the oppression and lack of freedom in the country.
A credible witness is someone who appears honest and reliable and who can give an accurate account of what they have seen.
The fact that conspiracy theorists continue to find new information, which by their own admission was not considered credible enough to be mentioned in their 2009 report, is an indication that they are not approaching the investigation in a serious manner
The trouble with your argument is that you are not providing us with a very credible explanation of what happened, he said.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'one'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "aware".
I'm a little worried that the archeologists won't be able to prove that the bones are more than 18,000 years old, a finding that would undermine the whole theory and make it less credible.
The politician's job is to convince the electorate of the rightness and credibility of his actions.


#critique

Nit-pick - The areas in which his work can be subject to a critical evaluation, are therefore: the lack of synchronisation with the development of vocabulary in the writing systems of South American societies.
In reality, any of these terms might in some circumstances apply to some particular individual or group, and in other circumstances any of the remaining terms might apply to that same individual or group.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'appreciation'.
Part of the reason for the lack of consensus, you suggest, is that there has been a failure to produce a theoretical critique that can explain and predict the behavior of non-democratic countries.
One of the most far-reaching critiques of this approach was by the economist John Kenneth Galbraith.
The central concept of this new approach is the idea of a text-based criticism, but it has been subject to intense critique by many authors.
The first chapter is a rather crude attempt at critiquing the work of other historians.
"The main purpose of the author's critique of Sahlins is to show that the existing theories do not provide a general explanation of human nature."
Other studies, however, have offered a more nuanced critique of the theory.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conclusion'.
While adhering to the classic Marxist belief that conflict between social classes is largely responsible, the book criticises both socialists and capitalists for their approaches to managing this strife.
The main problem with all these explanations is that they fail to provide a convincing critique of the evidence that slavery was harmful to the Southern economy.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'effectively'.
Efforts have been made to use computer models of natural selection to study the viability of the hypotheses concerning genetic load and evolution.
The most brutal critiques of the ‘new left' occurred in 1968 and 1969, when students protested against everything they viewed as immoral, oppressive and corrupt.
The main Marxist critique of the standard neoclassical model is that it fails to incorporate important features of the real world, such as monopolies and debt.
"This is a very limited and ultimately a rather parochial critique of research," one of the scientists wrote to protest the cut.
Harvard's Sesquicentennial Regulations were a revision of the university's charter, serving as a critique of the ever-encroaching corporate influence on higher education.
The historian wrote a critical article in which he took the theories of the physicist to task.
The biggest shortcoming of the music of the Beatles is their failure to incorporate a political critique into their songs.
"Eleanor's critique of this approach is that people who use it are more interested in promoting their ideology than engaging with the historical facts."
Consequently, the theory of a rain cycle ("Vedic Flood") has met with some social criticism in that it has been seen to justify the caste system.
A typical scientific critique of this theory would be to say that biological concepts like "intelligence" are too complex to be able to measure in a scientific way.
A cross-disciplinary team of experts is to mount a critique of the computer industry.
Caleb can't believe his ears. His dad is actually agreeing with him.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'term'.
Now go to sleep.
The main drawback of the book is that it does not offer a clear critique of the other theories, for example functionalism and cultural materialism.
The work of the feminist critique of psychiatric ideology has been widely read, but rarely credited by health professionals.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'medieval'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'existentialist'.
The first step in the scientific method is creating a hypothesis, which is then scrutinized and criticized by one's peers.
Most of my friends are university professors such as myself.
I started reading your book 'A critique of the scientific method' but got bored after the first few pages.
Mouzer's most forceful critique of the current system was his claim that it didn't do enough to prepare students for the future.
The reason for this is that the Hegelian Dialectic can be criticised on the basis that it is not a particularly effective or fair way to reach decisions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "conclusion".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "this".
The prime minister of Britain was apparently skeptical of the new Iraq war.
The main Marxist critique of liberalism is that it fails to acknowledge the crucial role of economic power in modern society, instead emphasising the role of law and persuasion.
Hence, the second task for example requires a critique of whether the theory of natural selection is capable at all of producing complex adaptations like the eye when the amounts of time involved are considered.
The idea's been criticized for failing to explain why a non-religious person's personality would have any less of a need to express itself than that of a religious person.
"Elitism does have it role to play, the problem is that the left has no real plan for sorting out the good from the bad.
Any critique of the theory can be explained away, not matter how damning.
I find it a little too simplistic to offer a purely Marxist interpretation of the French revolution.
In his so-called Copernican Revolution, the German astronomer Johannes Kepler (1571-1630) formulated the laws of planetary motion, which are critical to our understanding of motion today.
"The main reason why the author uses this title is to present his
The 'theory of everything' that he wrote down in the form of ten equations was nothing more than a theological critique of the big bang, which he believed to be a mathematical trick.
Some of my students have criticized my lectures as being too dry, because I don't spice them up with a lot of anecdotes and jokes.
The first and most obvious feature of the painting is its colouring.
Because of the size and complexities of the problem, no one theory can comprehensively describe or analyse juvenile delinquency.
The best critiques of the claims of genetics rely on the fact that there just isn't much supporting evidence.
The main Marxist critique of liberalism is that it focuses on the political and economic institutions of society and ignores social institutions such as the family.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'narrative'.
The philosopher provided a critique of the justification of private property that was based on an argument about natural law.
A critique written by a historian declaring the theories untenable and stating that no evidence exists to support them.
Not without a critique on the nature of truth, which is what we are considering today. The question is not who is right but what gives truth its truth value.
"A critique of famous paintings"
The chief critique of the psychoanalysis movement was its emphasis on Freud's theory that sexual urges are the primary motivational force in human behavior.
Professor: Some of the most important critiques of modern art have come from art itself.
You thank the professor and tell her that you will attempt to improve your writing for next week (as well as memorizing the sentence list).
The main problem with this theory is that it fails to explain why there was a "COLD" period between 500 and 150 million years ago, despite there already being abundant plant life on the planet.
These objections raised by Samuel Huntington are not new; they have been most of them already answered by Alexander Wendt in his article ‘Why Sovereignty Matters'.
His most famous critique of the Iraq War is his 2004 article, "The War Within: ‘Men of Courage' and the Assault on Iraqi Isolation."
In this seminal work, the historian offers both a critique of and a tribute to the pensee sociologique.
The report also contains a critique of the arguments made by the executives.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "flair".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'monarchy'.
The most famous critique of surrealism came from Louis Aragon, who accused its leading members of elitism.
In 1789, a claim that the wealth and opportunity in America was currently enjoyed primarily by the upper classes, the argument only really applied to white male property owners.
The ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle believed that universals, such as the idea of a chair, exist primarily in the mind.
The Marxist critique of the French Revolution states that it was in essence a battle for power between the aristocracy, the church and the middle classes.
A prominent anthropologist at the end of the nineteenth century, Lewis Henry Morgan, wrote a convincing critique of written history's version of how civilization developed.
The main intellectual and ideological critique of the theory has come from the paleontologist O. Louis Lippman who believes that the theory is excessively totalitarian in that it places too much emphasis on biological rather than social and environmental factors in human development.
The most famous critique of the American health care system is that it tends to treat people only after they get sick rather than keep them from getting sick in the first place.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'shifts'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'contrast'.
The problem with critiques of this sort is that they rely excessively on Western ideas of objectivity, and you're therefore unlikely to ever find a theory about history which you can take as read.
We will see whether this argument holds up under intellectual criticism.
The philosopher wrote a critique of the book, stating that it didn't address the important issues.
In a chapter of his book, "The Interpretation of Cultures," the American anthropologist Clifford Geertz (1926-2006) critiques "positivistic," or scientific, interpretations of culture.
The crushing Prussian victory over Austria showed the folly of a narrow focus on military skill and illuminated the need for a collective "coup d'oeil" or universal judgment of the critical moment in these matters.
Marx's writings on capitalism are masterpieces of the art of criticism, but they are not without their flaws.
The book was a mixture of science and fiction and it was subsequently heavily criticized by the scientific community.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "tendency".
The second aspect of Marxism that is crucial to the understanding of historical materialism is their critique. A critique in Marxist terms is an analysis of a particular situation that has gone wrong and how it came to be this way.
Bentham's ideas were a critique of the "naturalistic fallacy" in judicial thinking of the time.
The strongest of these critiques comes from Soviet archaeologists, who argue that the historical and written records in these areas are too vague to be used as evidence for the existence of a 'civilization' as such.
Althusser's "Marxist" critiques of popular culture tend to be more interesting than his political writings.
I think the most important point and the most difficult point to give up is the idea that we can somehow make a perfect plan for society, a perfect sort of map or blueprint that will show how everything works and all the pieces fit together.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "tonight".
Tonight on 'First Edition,' we highlight some of the best entertainment available today! We begin with a review of the upcoming movie blockbusters.
The first common approach involves trying to invalidate the scientific method itself and arguing for forms of knowledge that are not based on evidence such as intuition, introspection or revelation.
The weakness of the critque revolves around a misunderstanding of the premises and methodology of the new historical theory.
The United Nations has been criticized for its inefficiency and for being overly bureaucratic.
The most common critique of the theory is that it does not explain the fact that similar class structures exist even in very different societies.
A damning critique of the government's policies has been widely anticipated by the population.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'necessary'.
The major critique of Blumenbach's theory was that he was wrong to believe that East and South Asian people were a different race from Europeans.
The Marxist critique of the French Revolution states that it was in essence a power struggle between the middle classes or the bourgeoisie and the upper classes, aristocracy and the nobility.
To do this, he undertakes a personal critique of works on and by Mallarme along the way.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "unified".
The second chapter is a rather dismissive critique of the use of sociological and economic approaches to understanding history.
The main point of critique in this essay is the failure to mention the role of the proletariat in the outcome of the revolution.


#cumulative

But when the Irish Sweatshops were closed down, unemployment in Ireland skyrocketed to over fifty percent and crime was at its highest it's been since the 19th century and there was serious talk about sending all unemployed people to work on plantations in
The "white" in "white noise" refers to adding sounds and not to the color of the noise signal itself. In fact, any signal can be white noise if it contains multiple frequencies.
As fighting in Africa intensified, the former colonies began granting independence to their African possessions at an accelerated rate, not wishing to bear the expense of holding on to distant provinces with little economic benefit and much social unrest.
This is a list of the most important points the professor made so far:
The Common Agricultural Policy was a system in which farmers agreed to only sell their produce to a governing body at a set minimum price, and were in turn were given a minimum amount of money from that body for doing nothing other than what they would
The term "protolanguage" implies the existence of languages that have been transformed or accumulated over a long period of time
The most important agreement was the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which was established in the aftermath of World War II. Its primary purpose was to promote international trade by gradually reducing tariffs between signatory counties.
Furthermore, the legal doctrine of cumulative prejudice suggests that any errors by themselves may not be substantial, but when taken all together they persuade the court to overturn the decision.
The primary source of information about the life of Henry VII is the book written about him by the Tudor historian Sir Polydore Vergil.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'scale'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'only'.
Education is the process of passing cultural knowledge, skills and values from one generation to another, and so adds to the store of human experience accumulated since the species first evolved.
The long-term effect of these short-term solutions is the construction of a cumulative memory, which could possibly be used by governments in the future.
The science teacher gave the class a cumulative test, meaning that students had to know all the material from the past month, as well as the new material.
However, each of the three types has a useful role in building society, and it is only the combination of them that makes civilization possible, thus the metaphor of an arch.
The point of the tales is to teach children some important life lesson or moral lesson that they must take with them into their adult lives, and which will hopefully help make them better people. One way this is done in "The Three Little Pigs"
The process of dissolution could probably best be illustrated by the growth in numbers of professional politicians and their cumulative adherence to their own special interests.
The series of conflicts in the Balkans after the end of World War I were a consequence of the European powers' cumulative "scramble for Africa", which had been ongoing for a decade.
The inhabitants of the walled town were shocked by the tremendous cumulative effect of so many troops on the move.
The 19th-century American philosopher John Dewey believed that learning is a cumulative process.
The main obstacle to this plan was that the rate at which nitrogen is added to the soil is roughly constant, and so any added fertilizer is quickly burned up by plant growth.
Both the Taj Mahal and the Sydney Opera House are works of architectural art which have both improved their surrounding landscapes and become major tourist attractions.
As a result, the independence of the Thirteen Colonies in 1776 and of Australia in 1788 had a cumulative effect on the decline of the institution throughout Britain's remaining control over the world.
The process of natural selection is also cumulative, which means each successive change builds on those that came before it.
However, the findings of more recent research are beginning to yield what geneticists call a 'genetic clock' that can be used to measure mutations by comparing substitution patterns among related genealogical trees.
The amount of sludge will increase in the harbor, but it will be able to flush out to sea after each storm due to the cumulative effects of the new sewer lines.
The first phase involved the tedious but not difficult process of compiling a vast catalogue of all the symbols and their meanings, which was known as building up a knowledge base.
In a way, we are all apprentices in a game of cumulative Chinese whispers.
The history of the two groups that would come to be known as Native Americans and Canadian Inuit is one of slow attrition: a long series of population bottlenecks, genetic changes, and eventual shrinkage of territory.
He mentions that his book is available for further reading.
It has been a relief for economists since it has provided an explanation of why one economy is able to grow
A major problem with the fossil record is that it is a mixture of many incomplete and fragmented fossils, with no overall plan or organisation, thus lacking any kind of "big picture".
I. The evidence we have been discussing leads
The word was invented by physicists during the early part of the twentieth century to describe how the total light emitted by an object, such as a star or galaxy, grows by a constant amount in small intervals of time.
The "On the Origin of Species" has had a great effect on science because it introduced the idea of a cumulative science.
Second, the process was a lot slower than the constant growth that Malthus proposed. Instead, it was a slow and cumulative one.
The term 'catharsis' means the purging of emotions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'complexity'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cause'.
The last twenty years of research have added relatively little to what was known about the extinction, which was the topic of more intense study in the nineteenth century when some scientists believed it was caused by the cumulative effect of the Ice Age.
Cumulative means growing larger through additions. A cumulative vote is one where a group of people are allowed to cast a set of votes for different candidates, with the candidate getting the most votes being elected.
We should not forget the companies that moved to the countries with lowest labor costs: these eventually developed too, creating higher wages and better working conditions through the pressure of competition, which in turn increased consumer spending power in those countries which, thanks also to
He says the city provides grants totaling $6 million a year to businesses to help them pay for the changes they make.
As a result, the award had little of the expected cumulative effect on the public consciousness.
The whole course has been crucial to my understanding of the cumulative nature of the law, and the way in which it has developed from humble origins as an instrument of oppression,
The bank will certainly reconsider their decision, and it's even possible that they'll reverse it, but the relationship between you and them is likely to be permanently damaged.
The Nazis were roundly criticized for the concept of collective guilt or "Sippenhaft", where an entire family could be held responsible for the actions of one of its members.
Fortunately for the aquatic mammals, the most intelligent dinosaurs were too large to feed on them, so they weren't hunted, at least not primarily, by the largest two toed herbivores.
It has long been established that small, cumulative changes in the base pairs of mitochondrial DNA can have major health effects, including susceptibility to cancer.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'forward'.
As you grow up, you learn to speak your native language more and more clearly, but what is happening is that you are developing a deeper and more precise "mental dictionary" of all the words in your own language.
In a strongly hierarchical society, the accumulation of wealth is typically restricted to the upper classes.
The term 'inflation' refers, in effect, to a cumulative rise in prices and fall in the value of the currency.
In the computer game, knowledge of surrounding environment is not accumulated gradually and naturally, but rather through a practice that involves the taking in or absorbing of ‘facts' from the environment in a cumulative fashion.
The ‘Information Age' has only existed since the 20th century, but already a great deal of information has been generated.
A good way to build vocabulary is to look for words that are related to each other, these can be called 'synonyms', 'antonyms', or 'derivatives'.
The cumulative effect of the bombing campaign was blamed for the economic collapse.
Cumulative means gathering and being added to something over a period of time
The first period of artistic creativity in the Upper Paleolithic, between 40,000 and 30,000 years ago, produced what are now believed to be the earliest examples of sculpture: the Venus figurines.
"Is it in some sense better to build the United States in England and transmit this creation to the entire world, or should the goal be to create a more perfect republic initially within our own borders? For myself, I favor the former enterprise".
The other argument, held by the minority, is that too much emphasis was placed on finding a single explanation for the origins of humans when in fact there might never be a single theory to explain everything.
The minimum wage, unemployment insurance, and price controls were part of the New Deal's attempt to ameliorate the worst effects of poverty.
As the saying goes, a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step, and the same is true in this case: the industrial revolution was in fact a slow and almost invisible revolution that built up steam over hundreds of years, as new
These findings are not only important in themselves, but also are the building blocks for future research into what might be called the cumulative effects of inflation on economic growth.
The cumulative effect of making only three sales calls in a week is that you will never meet your annual sales target.
A lot of the heat generated by cars and trucks in a traffic jam is caused by the cumulative effect of several vehicles slowing down and stopping.
One of the most convincing pieces of evidence for this is the fact that publication in a scientific journal is a very ‘‘Cumulative process'', where the reference list at the end of a scientific paper enables other scientist
Victor Frankl's approach is mainly in the context of existentialism and as such his ideas can be seen as fulfilling a strongly humanistic perspective, as he empahsizes the need for humans to find meaning in life, despite the inherent
The 'father of genetics', Gregor Mendel, developed the theory of genetics through his studies of the inherited traits in peas.
It is important to remember that the knowledge gained from one question is not always cumulative - sometimes it is necessary to ask another question to clarify an answer.
The following chapter describes the main theories of literary criticism, their implications for education and evaluation of them.
It took me quite a long time to get the hang of computers, but once I had, it added a new and exciting cumulative element to the game.
Cumulative means tending to increase or gather over a period of time; growing.
However, it is true that many of the most popular studying techniques involve a lot of rote learning, and the acquisition of certain facts, which might be considered less than useful, if not actually 'useless'.
That pattern of farming was less efficient than hunting or gathering because the food supply is less reliable, people must work long hours in the fields to produce enough food, and the tools involved in farming are extremely laborious and time-consuming to make.
The restrictive monetary policies which were implemented under the Coolidge administration resulted in serious consequences, as for the rest of the world, the Great Depression was a long and extremely difficult struggle. A political struggle in which he had first taken an aggressive...
The experiments have been repeated enough times and in many different laboratories that the Nobel committee is confident that the findings are accurate and based on sound scientific principles.
A century ago, influenza was a disease that mostly affected children.
The republicans' cumulative advantage in manpower and materials was too much for the democracies to overcome.
As the years passed and comput
In the first round, the two men seem evenly matched.
The essential features of most of these religions were already in place by 100 BCE, and they had accumulated substance and strength over the centuries; but there were to be no more major innovations after this.
'Cumulative' means growing into something bigger over time. The sum of many small changes, for example.
"Cumulative" means "build up" and in geology it means a process that slowly builds up over time.
The development of the steam engine and the growth of factories led to a demand for better transport links, and these in turn encouraged the building of other machines, which required more iron, coal and so on - a process which is known as the accumulation
A collection of essays that together represent a representative selection of the field as it existed up to the time of publication.
The nature of the period was that victories were rarely decisive and only resulted in small changes of frontier; for this reason historians term it the "Era of Parity", when most of Europe was balanced in power.
The effect of these agreements is a set of regulations that builds up into a powerful force towards economic globalization.
In addition, the singers perform these songs in many concerts, as well as on recordings and CD's. As a result, the pieces are reaching an ever-growing audience, making a cumulative effect.
The project builds on the work of earlier scholars, who also collected "King Lear" editions.
The problem is that the more energy you put into the system, the more slowly it works, so a lot of water requires a powerful burst of energy to start moving, but then flows extremely slowly thereafter.
In the next two decades, scientific achievements accumulated at a rapid rate.
"Tainted meat from one animal could contaminate large amounts of meat stored in the same place, leading to a cumulative effect that could threaten an entire tribe.
With the benefit of education and the passing of time, what they learned from their parents and grandparents, generation by generation, added up, each new generation building on the work of the last: this is what is meant by "cultural accumulation,"
"U.S. Grant's overall strategic objective when he started his campaign in the spring of 1864 was to bring the War effectively to an end in 1864, with Union victory.
There is evidence that the first use of stone tools was the result of humans learning from earlier creatures, like apes, but not from each other.
The increase in Arctic ice is believed by many climatologists to be causing a "feedback"
The Ford Foundation claimed that the schools it supported, including those supported after the '60s, were already on a path toward alleviating these problems and that no more money would help.
Gerald Edelman, who was awarded the Nobel prize for medicine in 1972 and is a former president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, believes that their view has become too dogmatic and lacking in experimental data.
The years of malnutrition had taken a serious cumulative toll on his body's ability to ward off disease,
The most important purpose of the Bill was to prevent the rich landowners from restricting the votes through the use of cumulative voting.
The books we have read so far this semester form a sort of ‘canon', or list of required works.


#deduce

You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "principality".
The detective had to reason backward, from effect to cause, and then determine the means the criminal used, which he called implication, or, in other words, guessing the how.
You decide to move on.
While crime rates in New York City had risen steadily since the turn of the century, this would reverse itself after the institution of the 911 system making it once again safe for tourists to visit the city.
The police tried to deduce from the footprints whether the killer had arrived on foot, by car or (sniggers) a camel.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'impression'.
During the 17th century, natural philosophers used what they knew about the natural world to deduce the existence of unseen things like cells and magnetic fields which were not actually seen until the invention of the microscope and the development of electromagnetic theory.
Sherlock Holmes can be described as a 'father of forensics', although mysteries are, in his view, almost always resolved primarily through the collection and study of physical evidence.
Sherlock Holmes could be a rarity in that, because he was so bizarre in his thought processes, people often misinterpreted his deductions as magical or psychic abilities. But this was rarely the case.
Sherlock Holmes was able to deduce that the thief was a left-handed man, wearing a dark coat with a tear on the left sleeve.
The detective slowly and logically deduced that the murderer was the butler, since he had been at both the scene of the crime and the house at the time of the incident.
The police were able to use forensic evidence to deduce who the murderer was.
Arriving in South Africa, you deduce from a newspaper that the Second Boer War is still raging.
The information he had learned last night at the bar, he tried to deduce anything that seemed useful.
"Deduction" is a word used to describe a method by which one can arrive at a logical conclusion based on statements or propositions that are undisputed, that is, known to be true.
In this view, people see the sciences as a way of understanding reality and therefore all factual knowledge has to be based on sensory information, which is of course untrue because deduction is as important to science as induction.
Sherlock Holmes was never a man to allow emotion to interfere with his work, yet, on this occasion he seemed more discomfited than I had ever seen him.
Sherlock Holmes is often described as 'the archetypical detective' and the invention of such a figure is frequently credited to Edgar Allan Poe.
Sherlock Holmes used inductive reasoning to deduce both Watson's army past and his injury.
However, it was his deductive method, his "scientific" approach to mystery, that proved ground-breaking.
Warrick had been correct in deducing that Ludmilla had secretly issued a warrant for your arrest.
It isn't until you're in your twenties that you begin to feel comfortable with the act of deductive reasoning.
Deduction was part of a scientific method that relies heavily on measurement and careful observations, which Bacon believed could only give accurate results.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'and'.
He talked about his childhood, what led him to pursue social studies as a career, and his upcoming marriage to his longtime girlfriend.
Sherlock Holmes deduced that since he found no footprints in the dust of a nearby cellar, the barber must have been traveling light.
The officer was able to deduce that this man was standing in front of him with a bomb because he saw a timer, wires, and explosives.
However, this methodology has been severely criticized by some legal scholars, who argue that the assumption of independent cognate words as a proof for a common origin is naive and that it is possible to deduct, that many words in different languages have a common
The detectives had been searching for the culprit for more than a year, but
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "heavy".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "obviously".
Sherlock Holmes deduced that since the criminal had been unwell he would have a medicine chest in his apartment.
"For now it's impossible to know for certain what was in the kidnapper's mind or even if there was only one," he said and looked at you as if trying to deduce something.
Poirot surprised the passengers by deducing facts about some of them, and being proved right.
The detective had little proof to be certain, but her instincts and the very mannerisms of the suspect combined to allow her to easily deduce the culprit's identity.
It was possible to deduce from their tracks that they had split up into two groups, and the larger group had turned off down the pass.
Deduction is one of the two main operations in the field of logic, the other being induction.
Machiavelli deduced his theory about power from his interpretation of the events in ancient Rome and from his own experiences as an official in the second Florentine republic.
A few seconds after she drove away, he was able to deduce from her erratic driving pattern that she was very intoxicated.
He is intelligent, and from his speech he seems to come from an upper-class family, so it stands to reason that he has probably attended a good university.
Poe, conversely, was fascinated by mathematical studies and how the brain was capable of deductive reasoning.
The police were able to piece together an account of events that fully explained what happened, but they couldn't fully *deduce* the circumstances.
The detective was able to deduce that it was a member of the victim's family from the way the body was positioned in the library.
Consequently, the person I had just interviewed was not the killer I was looking for.
Sherlock Holmes was a brilliant man: he was able to use deductive reasoning to solve any problem that was thrown at him, no matter how complex.
Immanuel Kant was one of the greatest philosophers of the Enlightenment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "engage".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fantasy'.
Sir William Blackstone was the first recorder of parliamentary debates During a trial, the jury is supposed to be able to use deduction to help them find a verdict.
The crime syndicate boss was accused of several murders and able to deduct by the police.
As a result of his observations, Sherlock Holmes deduced that the suspect must be left-handed and wear a size nine shoe.
Many of the clues were too vague to deduce anything other than that the killer had a strong sexual desire for blood.
One of the important elements of the story is the way his careful observations and logical deductions about the local people help him later.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "generation".
Their deductions about the nature of the mental world seemed highly plausible.
It wasn't until the creation of the European Union that it became possible to readily exchange information, and consequently propositions about the future, between and among the people who live in Europe.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'fully'.
The story of the New Deal is the story of America in the twentieth century, and a "fully"
The upper classes of the aristocracy in Britain were forced to contribute resources towards defending their property from being taken away by the lower classes, whom they saw as dangerous hoodlums.
The detective carefully deduced the criminal's height, weight, age, and address from studying the scene of the crime.
The criminal was careful not to leave any evidence at the scene, so the detective was unable to deduce who the murderer was.
The young man, in his late twenties, had been staring at the carriage for several minutes.
The detective, a student of the scientific method, employed deduction to identify the murderer.
Sherlock Holmes was able to deduce that someone in the house had a wooden leg, from the fact that there was a slight variance between the Wear and tear on the stair carpet on the landing, in comparison to the rest of the carpet on
The engineer deduced the diameter of the track needed for the massive tank by looking at blueprints and calculating the amount of curve the track should have.
The police eventually managed to piece together an account of what had happened, but the assailant had already fled.
Deduction in the law involves taking various facts stated on the case and from them logically arriving at certain legal conclusions.
One of the detectives slowly looked up from his notepad, dropping his ballpoint pen on the table in front of him as the other one slowly wound down, gently laying his wrist on the table in front of him before they both looked at each
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "modern".
The police were able to piece together the events of the night through an accurate deduction of the blood trail.
Sherlock Holmes deduced the driver's identity and upon doing so, he immediately took us to the correct house.
Holmes could only deduce from what he found that the revolver had been fired two times.
It was, he says, one of the many pieces of evidence that made him deduce that a small group, probably a hunting party, had been wiped out by an early form of man-eating dinosaur.
One of the earliest pioneers of criminal profiling in the United States was Dr. James Brussel, a psychiatrist with an interest in the criminal mind.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "immediately".
Despite the fact that the police had found fingerprints in the room as well as a suspect who lived in the area, it was only with Holmes' deduction that they were able to solve the case.
The detective deduced that the murderer was someone in the Brown family, since each victim was found with a small cut on his or her hand.
As a historian, you often have to draw upon written records and other documents to deduce the past.
The book had been borrowed by his sister, with whom he had quarrelled the week before; he had himself told me of the quarrel, and thus I had no difficulty in deducing both the fact and the motive of the borrowing.
If religious people believe that they stand to benefit after death, there is no apparent reason why they should not prefer such a situation over one in which they receive no such benefits.
As a police detective, you must be able to reason clearly and deduce facts from evidence, often under great pressure.
Another view, and one held primarily by professional detectives and criminal psychologists, is that people in this situation can't be made to talk; they will automatically assume that you know more than you really do.
If there was a problem with the food or water supply, it could be deduced by a certain population's death rate.
Sherlock Holmes could deduce much from the little that he knew.
The detective deduced the murderer's identity from the mud on his boots.
The private was nervous; he didn't know anything about the situation he had been thrust into, and he had an assignment that would be impossible for him to exactly deduce if he followed the instructions given to him.
I looked at the torn scraps of paper and could see that the writer had written out the alphabet several times, then started guessing the words based on how they began and ended.
Sherlock Holmes made a habit of listening very closely to what the suspect said and then of deducing, from this and from other information, the truth of what had happened.
Deduction is the process or reasoning from a particular conclusion.
The detective was able to logically deduce where the suspect had fled.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Aurignacian'.
The government tried to deduce the ethnic origin of the terrorists from the language they spoke, but this proved impossible.
"The English Civil War was fought between the Royalists, who believed that kings were chosen by God, and the Parliamentarians, who believed that kings ascended to the throne by popular election.
That he was an imbecile I had deduced from just a few examples of his speech.
The police were able to use this information to deduce where the safe was and break into it.
"Sherlock, you have been withholding vital information from me," she cried in an angry but hushed voice.
Herodotus claimed the Egyptians had deliberately wrapped the body of the deceased, then later went back and took it apart again to 'deduce' how it had been put together.
Sherlock Holmes deduced from the ashes in the fireplace that a meal had been cooked there that night.
In order to estimate the value of the new proposed revolutionary currency, the bank had to decide whether or not to accept it.
The detective could be pretty sure that whoever threw that match into the straw was the barn arsonist; he was pretty good at deducting stuff like that.
My deductions concerning Mrs. Adams's personality were entirely correct.
At university, Dr David Marsden also became a great influence on the young student.


#demonstrate

We are trying to demonstrate that a jet of superheated steam can propel a ship.
Bubonic plague is spread from an infected person to someone who hasn't had it by a bite from an infected flea (on a rat). The flea then bites the human, infecting him or her.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "firsthand".
"The crisis we are discussing today is not a test of the American system but a test of ourselves as individual citizens," he concluded grimly.
Another experiment I'd like to highlight is one we did with rats.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'uncontrollable'.
A team of paleontologists has found a 500-million-year-old fossil that it claims demonstrates that complex animals existed on Earth more than half a billion years ago, far earlier than previously believed.
It was a fine summer's day, and the charming village of Andersen, in South Island, New Zealand, was holding its annual agricultural show.
The protests helped to contribute to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which ended the legal segregation in America.
Despite these laws, some protesters felt it was necessary to demonstrate against the war.
The decline and disappearance of the Neanderthals is demonstrated by a reduction in their tools as the period progresses.
The main point I would like to demonstrate is that the government controls all the electronic and print media.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "excesses".
The invention of the telescope made it possible for Galileo to demonstrate that the ancient belief that the sun and the planets revolved around the earth was incorrect.
The purpose of the law is to prevent discrimination; however, this is difficult to demonstrate.
The first step in the scientific method, demonstration, also known as observation, is the most important part of science.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "ad".
But the Etruscans also made some important contributions to Roman civilization. It would be difficult, for example, to overstate the importance of the calendar in everyday life.
The Church did not demonstrate any open opposition to the king's actions.
One spectacular success was when they attempted to demonstrate the scientific method by predicting the outcome of an experiment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'constitute'.
The imbecile cast an oblique glance at the newcomer and then went haughtily on his way, demonstrating by his attitude that he could not be bothered to waste any time on the type of people usually found in the lower decks.
The reason why young people demonstrate is that old people govern.
They've had to walk hundreds of miles, mostly through wilderness, without ever being properly shown how to do it.
The survey team will be arriving tomorrow to begin their demonstration on measuring the volume of our waste in order to asses potential future tax liability.
It is important to note that the peasants, workers and others who protested in Germany in 1848 did not demonstrate any desire to bring down the system; they merely wanted certain repressive features of it to be modified.
The Communist party had to use military force to demonstrate its strength by killing landlords in the countryside.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'announcement'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modernisation'.
The evidence for this can be clearly demonstrated with a bar graph.
Before the discovery of the ability to cross-pollinate distantly related crops, agriculture faced the possibility of starvation during years with poor harvests.
However, please note that your grade in this class will be determined primarily on your work in term papers and the final examination
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'sporadic'.
The fighting was sporadic and chaotic in Libya.
That's why it is absolutely necessary to demonstrate theorems from Euclid in front of your classmates.
The value of the potential saving from Binswanger's higher-level nursing study was demonstrated by the finding that most of a hospital's costs for treating heart attacks came from the first few days after the attack.
The Parthenon frieze demonstrates the skill of ancient Athenian sculptors
It is possible to re-create the proof of the Pythagoras' theorem, which demonstrates that the sum of the squares of the legs of a right angled triangle equals the square of the hypotenuse.
Franklin showed that lightning was in fact electricity and devised an experiment with a kite to demonstrate this.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'latter'.
Professor:Without a clear and simple understanding of the way in which an electronic machine could do that, it was not until the mathematician Alan Turing, gave a vivid
demonstration of such a machine.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'isolation'.
The demonstrators were calling for the law to be changed so that people who were under eighteen could not be imprisoned without being charged.
The main reason for them to return to the town would have been to demonstrate against the Yagé Treaty.
The students' results were significantly better after only a few days of practicing the method he was teaching, so he decided to demonstrate it himself first.
However, it does not directly demonstrate that the rate of growth was constant.
The professors' explanation of "Hamlet" would demonstrate to the students the accepted approach to literary interpretation that they would be studying throughout their time at university.
The following week you will be given an opportunity to demonstrate some of what you have learned.
A powerful demonstration of the effectiveness of the drug occurred last year when a thirty-year-old mother, son of a doctor herself, stabbed her eighteen-month-old child twenty-seven times and then tried to commit suicide.
However, scientists were finally able to demonstrate without doubt that many of these changes could have resulted from organic causes.
The theory of gravity has been shown to be correct since it successfully predicted the motions of the planets in our solar system.
It is the task of the sciences to demonstrate the truth: that which is, that which occurs, that which has happened, and not to mention a world beyond that.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'relatively'.
Heating the test tube resulted in it shattering and also allowed it to change colour, which he believed he could demonstrate by using a colored liquid rather than a clear one.
The dividing of human throughout history into stages is a debated process and has led to much controversy between various schools of thought; however, human civilization has most certainly undergone some measure of development from its primitive beginnings to the level it has attained today.
A religion's ability to demonstrate control over a problem that people face is an important factor in the spread and acceptance of that religion.
The new law would also allow airlines to demonstrate that their safety programs are adequa
The weakness of the democratic idea soon became apparent, while the socialists and communists, who had been absorbed by the Social-Democratic Party, demonstrated their hostility to the republic and all government.
She had played the sonata the week before for another teacher, who did not have any criticisms or suggestions about her playing. However, when she played for the Russian professor, he made several criticisms and suggested several changes.
The two new technologies must be shown to conserve energy before they can be classified as perpetual motion machines.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'undermine'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "violation".
The children were asked to identify the objects that they saw the clown hiding and also asked to identify the ones that the clown was going to hide.
It is the responsibility of the geneticist to demonstrate the existence of these genes, and show how they contribute to the physical and behavioral similarities among humans.
He attempted to demonstrate the superiority of the Germans by creating higher quality goods at a faster rate.
At the meeting, the chief of police will demonstrate how to handle a gun and give you a short course in first aid.
And so we have seen how the chain of command operates to disseminate orders down through the ranks and how officers can punish or even execute soldiers who fail to obey their orders.
The workers didn't take kindly to the manager's suggestion that they demonstrate their abilities by showing how fast they could ladle out the sulfur.
He showed how the protests born in Istanbul and spreading across Turkey have been in response to Prime Minister Erdogan's call for an election, due to take place in two months, which many fear he will use to consolidate control using the new powers granted to
They'd been trying to show that women were unable to think as critically as men and were therefore barred from University.
One way to do this is to demonstrate that the opposing theories are in logical contradiction to one another.
The lecture demonstrates the way of all animality and animal life and plants in the jungle.
The Church could also no longer lay claim to the idea of Isabella being a virgin. This both undermined its authority and also demonstrated Isabella's defiance of her husband at the same time as vicar of Christ.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 're-emerged'.
I'd really love to see someone like a professional tightrope walker re-emerge with that skill set.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'benefits'.
At the end of the course, students will have demonstrated intermediate-high level ability in the language.
Some of your success will be due to demonstration of your talent.
A demonstration of the standard model was that magnetic poles always come in pairs, and if you cut through the middle of a bar magnet, you'll end up with two magnets, each with their own North and South pole.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "apocalypse".
The student rose and demonstrated his skill with a bow and arrow by shooting an arrow through a wooden apple that was hanging by a thread.
In 1857, Charles Darwin provided a convincing argument for the implications of biological inheritance by publishing his theory of evolution in "The Origin of Species".
She closed her eyes and demonstrated a few deep breaths to help herself relax.
Professor Charles E. Kenneth: If the union doesn't accept the company's offer then there could be a strike which may lead to a lockout which could ultimately lead to the plant closing down altogether with all that entails for everyone here.
The decision to invade Iraq had been approved by most E.U. governments and was therefore not a controversial decision.
The karyotype is a visual representation of the number, size, and shape of an organism's chromosomes. It is usually represented on paper, although scientists can also create electronic karyotypes for more complicated organisms.
But re-creating an entire extinct genome is no easy feat. It requires the scientists to demonstrate they can at least recreate a small part of it.
I'll demonstrate the process more effectively with this pencil.
The professor then demonstrated the technique on another student, using a broomstick and a strand of hair.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "literature".
During the period of totalitarianism the secret police had complete power to demonstrate and torture citizens.
The falling-off of the $10 bill's use in daily life over the years is an example that illustrates the long-lived controversy over the legality of private ownership of certain objects (such as currency) in the United States.
If you can demonstrate a good knowledge of the ebb and flow of European power, you will have answered this question.
"I will now demonstrate a way of linking several of the prepared slides together to show a gradual but large change," says Norman, who presses two more together.
It is difficult to demonstrate a direct connection between linguistic and cultural diversity.
President Richard Nixon's involvement in the Watergate scandal and his subsequent resignation from office in 1974 was a major turning point in the U.S.'s history and politics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unite'.
Some countries, such as Britain and France, demonstrate their convictions with periodic military intervention.
It is not the physician's task to demonstrate special technical knowledge, but to put his patient at ease.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "creation".
In the sixth day of creation, God imbued Adam with an innocent soul.
The bill demonstrated the government's commitment to change as well as its pragmatic approach to problem-solving.
"What do you want?" asked the demon, as a blue cloud emerges from the depths of his body to form the shape of a human upper torso with ghostly yellow eyes.
The idea that societies move in cycles of violence was first popularized by Belgian historian and scholar, Francois Auguste Victor von Clausewitz (1).


#denotation

Semiotics is the study of signs and symbols.
The word "dog" denotes a mammal that typically has four legs, a long tail, and coat of fur, and that is widely kept as a pet.
The word "dog" denotes an animal that has been domesticated from the Wolf.
The word "apocalypse" can refer either to the end of the world, prophesied in the Bible, or to any great disaster.
The flower denoted purity, and the cross purity and redemption.
The word 'race' is often used in everyday language as a synonym for the word 'species'.
When the apple is used in a sentence, it generally denotes something red and round that grows on trees.
The real advantage was that it had a rapid denotation in many areas of the country.
The word "dowry" is defined as the property or money a wife must bring to her marriage.
The word "queue" comes from the same source as the word "queue" which means a line of people, or in British English, a tail of a rowdy group of people.
A denotation of a term is the complete description of all the things it applies to, and a connotation is the cultural or emotional association with that term.
The word "approbation" carries the implication that something is morally acceptable because it is approved by someone of importance.
The "Daily Worker" is a newspaper dedicated to the cause of communism, and is read primarily by members of the communist party.
The word "leaf" denotes a simple, green structure found on woody plants.
The word 'run' has the same denotation of several activities in which the legs of a human are used to propel it over ground.
In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the consequences of the revolution were felt throughout Europe.
The word "river" denotes a natural flowing body of water of variable size, one that flows into another stream, lake, ocean, or other body of water and that is larger than a creek.
The word "Downfall", known as Der Untergang in its original German, has a particular denotation.
The word "love" has many beautiful denotations such as "brotherhood", "generosity" and "benevolence".
The word "pasta" denotatively refers to a variety of ingredients made into a dish.
Semantics is a branch of linguistics that deals with the denotation, or core meanings, of words.
Semantics is the study of meaning in language, its denotation and connotation. Semantics specifically deals with the way in which language users understand the word
The term ‘modernization' has a range of meanings depending on the area of life one is referring to.
The word "inappropriate" has the same denotation as the word "wrong", but it doesn't have the same connotation.
The denotation of the word "science" according to the Oxford English Dictionary is "knowledge or a department of knowledge as an object of study."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "obsolete".
"Cat" denotes a furry pet that is like a smaller version of a lion.
The word "star" denotes any massive, luminous spheres of plasma held together by gravity.
Semantics includes the study of the meaning, or the denotation, of words.
1. The most accurate denotation of the word "liberal" is "someone who believes in freedom".
The study of music notation is known as "denotation".
Semantics, the study of meaning in language, is divided into two closely related fields: denotation and connotation.
The term ‘species,' taken from Latin, refers to a group of living things which can interbreed and produce fertile offspring.
Semantics is the study of meaning in language, its denotation and connotation.
The "denotation" of a word is its strict dictionary definition.
The word "school" denotes a building that children attend to learn the basic skills they will need to become productive members of society.
Impressionism is a style of painting in which the artist attempts to suggest a moment or emotion via 'denotation' of vivid colours and brush strokes.
A denotation of a word is what it "connotes" or represents.
The scientific definition of life is made up of the denotation of certain biological factors, including an ability to metabolize, grow, and replicate.
And, indeed, the founder of the theory himself said that he used the word denotation "in a rather vague sense".
The word "define" comes from the Latin word "definire" which means "to bound or delimit"
The denotation of a word is its basic or core meaning.
The word "affluent" implies a great abundance of riches.
In music, the denotation of a chord is the list of pitches that make up the chord.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'patriotism'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'qualification'.
The word "clandestine" has a negative meaning. It means secret or undercover and is often associated with something sinister.
The legal meaning of a word is its 'denotation', or the idea it conveys to the general populace.
The state of being limited to a specific meaning or range of meanings of a word or expression; the set of meanings designated as correct by usage and agreed upon by a community.
"I think that when the wave arrived on land, part of it returned to water, and the rest went up in the air and then fell down again as rain."
The word "wolf" denotes a carnivore of the genus "Canis", this is, the biological family of canines.
The word 'politician' denotes a person who is a member of a legislature.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'horrified'.
Incorrect grammar is often used to denote a lack of education, while formal language is used to denote a higher amount of education and social standing.
Photography also gave people more privacy, because the denotation of a person in a photograph is often very different from the connotation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "coalescence".
The mass of people tend to want predictable politicians who won't coalesce
The word 'apocalypse' has a clear denotation, or meaning, but it has several connotations, or related meanings.
In linguistics, a word's denotation is the basic or core meaning of the word.
The term ‘Holocaust' is often defined as the systematic, state-sponsored extermination of European Jews by the Nazis during World War II.
The word "egregious" has a negative connotation.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase is a chemical that breaks down, or metabolizes, certain drugs into other chemicals.
The denotation of a word is its strict dictionary definition.
The word denotation is used to describe the common, conventional meaning of a word.
The denotation of a word is its strict dictionary definition.
The word ‘Civilization' has several different denotations, but its primary usage refers to the civilizations of ancient Greece and ancient Rome.
The word "chair" denotes an object that one sits in.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'denotation'.
The word "vampire" is used in several different contexts in the English Language, with slightly different meanings. In modern usage, a vampire is a reanimated corpse that drinks human blood, with demon associated with it.
The denotation of the word "democracy" refers to a state that is run by the people and elective by the citizens.
logo: a graphic symbol that is used to identify a company
The Oxford English Dictionary is the dominant historical dictionary of the English language, and lists the denotation and connotation of more than words.
A monopoly is a market in which there is only one seller of a particular good or service.
Religion has acquired a number of different meanings in different contexts, but at its core is the relationship between an individual and their God or Gods.
Semiotics is a way of investigating the denotation and connotation of symbols.
The word 'honesty' denotatively means the quality of being honest, and honesty is the quality of being truthful.
A denotation is a clear meaning of a word, a direct definition. It is usually a rather bland or noncontroversial definition.
You choose your words:
The word "boat" denotes a maritime vessel.
The word denotation has several meanings; the most common is dictionary definition.
The word Gayle in its denotation refers to a person who has a tendency to be attracted to persons of the same gender.
Marx defined the denotation of power as ‘the process by which social and political institutions confer privilege and entitlement on some people, thus enabling them to exploit other people, in particular their labour'.
The term "gene" has a denotation of basic units of heritable factors in living things, according to most biologists.
The word ‘involvement' has two denotations; it means both an involvement in and involvement with something or somebody.
The word "flammable" denotes a dangerous property of material which is flammable
The second implication of the work is that there are only a few different types of alphabet, after all.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "congratulate".
A glacier is a large mass of ice that moves slowly down a slope or valley, in any area where the temperature is low enough to sustain it.
The word 'carriage' can denote something that carries a passenger.
1. The definition of a word
The "denotation" of a word is its strict dictionary definition.
The word paedophile has a negative denotation in modern society.
The word "arrogance" denotes a belief in one's own greater importance than others.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "consequently".
The word "gene" has several senses. First, it can refer to the definition of a gene: a segment of DNA that codes, or holds the code, for a particular protein.
The narrowing of Vision's eyes to a slit denotes anger.
Semantics, or the study of meaning in language, is the branch of linguistics that focuses on the sounds, words, syntax and semantics of language.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "furthermore".
Furthermore, several other states also independently passed measures outlawing slavery.
At the end of a presidium meeting, when all the major matters before it have been decided, the chair declares the meeting adjourned and thanks everyone for attending.
The word ‘apocalypse' has two main definitions, the first being denotation and the second being connotation.


#denote

In the middle of the Paleolithic period most peoples' diets consisted primarily of fish, fruit and animal protein (meat, eggs, etc. ).
The fact that sixty percent of shares are owned by two companies directors denote its importance to the company.
Aztecs believed that their massive blood sacrifices denoted the signs of a rigorous and painful initiation process necessary to join the ranks of the gods.
The nose is the prominent part of the face, so long as it doesn't denote stupidity.
The late ancient Roman architecture is often grand and bulky, which denotes the great power of the Empire at the time.
While the colour red usually denotes the passion of love, it also denotes a warning in the colour
So the soft Chicago winters no longer "denote" a weak winter climate.
The color of the cap and gown denotes the student's discipline, with white signifying a Bachelor of Arts, blue for a Bachelor of Science, and yellow for a Bachelor of Laws.
They also denote the highest point in human art and achievement.
Meanings of words change over the centuries: in Victorian times "gay" probably would have primarily denoted someone who was happy, not homosexual.
The constitution denotes the organisation as a republic.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'denote'.
Your GPA, or grade point average, is a number that denotes your academic achievement.
It is a mistake to assume that the Sun's rising and setting denotes Day and Night: for, in respect of Light, we cannot judge whether it be Day or Night, but by the expence of Light of the Sun.
The English word "folk" has two separate meanings.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "accordingly".
The caste system does not denote an inactive social hierarchy, but rather one in which each individual is destined to play his or her part.
Brief and to the point, Herbert's informing me of his decision denotes his respect for my position.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "inherently".
"The retreat denotes indecision" is a common idiom, meaning that the retreat shows hesitation.
The physical features of these tools denote that their makers were members of the same culture and had traveled to that island from the Asian mainland.
It is possible to denote within these documents that there were two distinct waves of Homo Erectus emigrating from Africa.
Minimalism in music is a movement that first denoted a shift away from the dissonance of serialism.
The term "powder" is used to denote gunpowder or the combustion process of rapid oxidation within the guns.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'catholic'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'encyclopedia'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "pursue".
The priest represented in the temple denotes that the place of worship is still used.
To denote something means to represent it by a symbol.
Surveys consistently indicate that a majority of the people in virtually all nations around the world, not just Islamic ones, desire to see an end to fatwah's and other uses of religious law to settle legal disputes.
The decisions of the Congress of Vienna are often criticized for artificially creating an inefficient balance of power in Europe and are seen as a major cause of World War I.
However, French society denoted a division between those who had been part of the "Great Men's War" and those who hadn't.
In English, we use prefixes and suffixes to denote gender.
The presence of the older style decorations like the wattle and daub construction normally denotes an older building.
'Decreased libido' denotes a lessening of sexual desire.
In the tale of Snow White, the fact that Snow White's stepmother asked her magical mirror, "Mirror, mirror on the wall, who is the fairest of them all?" and the mirror replied "Snow White"
A union may be designated to negotiate with management on workers' behalf.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'denote'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "intellectual".
The panel ticked all the boxes, including one that did not denoted hardship or lack of choice.
Nevertheless, mean IQ scores have been rising steadily in the Western world since the first tests were given, and this rise is independent of improvements in education. This rise in test scores has been used to "denote"
"To speak of 'denotation' by itself, however, is to exaggerate the difference... between connotation and word meaning."
The written symbols that denote the concept of a word are called its phonetic representation.
The word 'nurse' calls to mind a man in uniform who is charged with many administrative duties; it doesn't denote a person who does what Mary grades.
Immanuel Kant is often considered the greatest ethical philosopher to ever write, and his ideas on duty, obligation, and morality have been highly influential.
The tone of the painting also denotes that the woman is wealthy.
It is important that the symbols used to denote the different components of the string be agreed upon.
The strange hieroglyphs depicting animals, people and abstract symbols that cover the stone tablets which make up the Rosetta Stone are certainly important, but some of them denoted sounds rather than ideas.
The ‘^' at the beginning of a line denotes the main idea of that paragraph.
Phonemes are sounds or letters in alphabets like English or American that "denote" or symbolize very precise sounds in the spoken languages.
He remained in Istanbul for another two years before being transferred elsewhere, but he never forgot the days he'd spent there, and Istanbul remained the city he loved best and always signified to him a golden age.
Judgments passed by the participants were:
Professor Lindhal says, "A typical example of an activity that can be represented by a rule is the activity of driving a vehicle from one place to another."
The color brown does not denote a specific object, place, or idea.
In the past, women were considered to be inferior to men and the rules which governed their lives were very different.
The Latin name "Canis lupus" denotes a wolf.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'guerrilla'.
The strange thing was that he didn't take any of the objects home with him; he only looked at them. They therefore didn't denote any significance on his part as far as she was concerned.
The change in the status of women from the middle ages to the Renaissance period doesn't denote a positive outlook on the part of the males who ran society.
The next important philosopher after Descartes was John Locke, who believed that the mind was a "blank slate" at birth, like an empty hard drive in a computer.
The photographs of original documents attached to the briefcase are just some of the pieces of evidence that the historical society has denoted as genuine.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "immigrate".
The term "vandalism" denotes an urge to impose individual will on the world rather than a striving to create and achieve something.
The number of people that were executed for witchcraft before the word "denotes" changes in the sentence.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'regrettably'.
Spaniards were forced to trade their valuables for gold with immense regret.
The DNA evidence that was found did not denote a family relationship.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'denote'.
The size of the human brain has nearly doubled from the time of our evolution. This denotes that the growth of human intelligence can't have a solely genetic cause.
The clock's ticking loudly, and this small room is starting to close in on you. Slowly but surely, your heartbeat begins to beat in time with the loud ticking.
Slavery tends to denote an unequal and iniquitous distribution of land ownership.
In law, a writ is a formal written order issued by a person with the authority to do so. Different forms of writs include mortgage foreclosure, mandamus, prohibition, habeas corpus, and quo warranto.
Not all changes in meaning can be considered semantic changes; e.g. "bald" started out as an adjective meaning "bold" but now primarily describes hairless skulls.
In mathematics, the fact that a is less than b can be denoted by a
Professor: The world's religions can be usefully divided into those that are aligned on the good-evil axis, and those that are not.
In the United States, the nursery industry relies on imports from developing countries, and these imports have a high proportion of labor violations, including the use of child labor.
The United States was already becoming a dominant world power and its ongoing economic success would denote the arrival of a new period in history.
The use of the vernacular language was gradually revived, and the Latin words that had come into common use, though still retained their Latin terminations; as populum, gubernatum, interpretatum.
The fact that both the first and last letters of the alphabet are used to denote the beginning and end of a thing is not a coincidence.
The effect this habit had upon his arteries was to denote them with the almost perfectly circular holes.
The American system denotes various levels of meaning and understanding in its symbols.
Some animals, such as bees, can communicate using sounds, and the individuality of these sounds denotes the existence of names for each member of the community.
The clothes people wear tend to denote their economic class.
However, in the eighteenth century warfare had changed. Cavalry was no longer the main arm, artillery was. Cavalry now denoted an arm of its own and was used to denote chase off the battlefield after a successful charge.
Professor: The fact that the ancients used to denote the continent we live in as 'Africa' is just one indication of this.
The Ottoman Empire's close association with the caliphs led to it being seen as a protector of Sunni Islam.
The term "blue-collar" denotes a working-class person.
For example, the practice of medicine doesn't solely denote intellectual and physical skills; it also denotes a certain level of maturity.
However, these are just formal elements and the real core of any government, the actual way it functions in society, is what is called its "nature".
In particular, the 1571 invention of logarithms allowed calculations to be done much more easily, and their extensive use began around then.
believed that the devices used to control the weather denoted the existence of a highly technologically advanced civilization.
In the eighteenth century, the difference between the styles used for writing and printing which were in use in England denoted social status.
Pericles, as the first citizen of Athens during its "Golden Age", has been associated with the highest eminence and ability.
The English speakers of the American colonies had not as yet developed a distinct language variety, but rather they continued to speak the same English as their neighbors in England.
The winter solstice, or the shortest day of the year in Earth's northern hemisphere, is the moment of the year when the sun's denotation is furthest from the equator.
It was mentioned in the write-up of one of my experiments that the energy fields could also be used to cure cancer.
Alfred was also a renowned linguist, and his work on Anglo-Saxon and Celtic languages helped denote our modern understanding of those tongues.
The term "flower" denotes a reproductive organ of a plant that has been specialized for reproduction.
The battle against Iraq denotes the beginning of an aggressive policy on the part of the United States.
The thick coating of dust that we encountered indicates that the house hasn't been inhabited for years.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'disturb'.
