

#paradigm

The structure of the periodic table had become a paradigm for all future work in chemistry.
The history of the world, just like the history of a society, is in essence the story of how one generation passes its values and beliefs on to the next generation.
While the controversy it raised has largely subsided, the Piltdown hoax is remembered as an example of what can happen when eager researchers are too hasty to accept revolutionary ideas in their zeal to advance a new paradigm.
A century ago, the discovery that the earth wasn't the center of the universe was a shock to many and formed a new scientific paradigm in which our planet became just another planet revolving around one of an average of 300 billion stars in our galaxy.
Thomas Kuhn, in his influential "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions", offered the new paradigm that scientists work within a non-competitive 'paradigm' in which results are not always as important as making a contribution to the field.
The theory of relativity, as well as the recently developed theories of quantum mechanics and chaos, all propose different ways the universe operates.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'abolished'.
Shortly after World War II, the discovery of the structure of DNA was a paradigm shift in biology.
Ironically, the uncertainty principle of physics has been called a "paradigm shift" in the philosophy of science: it implies that scientists cannot come up with a list of fixed rules that can describe scientific knowledge.
Alfred North Whitehead and later Thomas Kuhn said that when new theories replace old ones, this is not due to the old ones becoming falsified directly, but rather because physicists work within a certain 'paradigm' or conceptual framework
Paradigm example is the tendency of children to learn more from bad examples that from good ones.
The chief of these were new scientific ideas that challenged old theories and concepts, or 'paradigms', such as the Copernican theory that placed the sun, not the Earth, at the center of the universe.
Newton's discoveries became the new physics paradigm, or model, to which all future discoveries were compared.
The invention of the hypothesis was a turning point in the history of science, since it meant that for the first time an explanation could be offered without waiting for the appearance of a miracle, as had previously been the case.
Archaeologists used to believe that the mounds found in the Mississippi Valley were interesting but relatively recent artifacts.
Paradigm is a set of assumptions, theories, values and practices.
A theory that explains a group of phenomena, especially one that has been universally accepted, is called a scientific paradigm.
Anthropology was a very different discipline at that time, known as physical anthropology it was primarily interested in racial hierarchies rather than the discussion of humanity itself.
The concept of a 'paradigm shift' was proposed by Thomas Kuhn in 1962 in his highly influential book "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions" to describe the nature of scientific advance.
In the field of science, the concept of a paradigm refers to the widespread adoption of theories, hypotheses and methods that have achieved that status simply because there are so many adherents to them.
The Marxist belief that history is set to follow a certain path, and only one outcome is possible, the Marxist 'paradigm', has been abandoned by most intellectuals.
It was a shift in scientific thought or world view, known as a paradigm, in which natural laws came to be seen as universal and unchanging.
The postmodernist thinkers believe that the late 1800s marked the shift from modernism into postmodernism, which means that works of literature written after this time are classed as postmodern.
The development of the periodic table of elements and atomic theory was a paradigm shift in the understanding of the physical world.
The movement of society from agricultural/hierarchical to industrial democracy has been compared to the shift from the Ptolemaic, or Earth-centered model of the solar system, to the Copernican, or sun-centered model
Many of the most important religious works were written between 400 and 900 AD, during the rise of the Islamic Persian Empire, in what is known as "the golden age of Islam".
The actions of the servants were outside the accepted paradigm of behavior for people in their station in life.
A new paradigm, a new way of looking at things, is sweeping the field.
The standard scientific paradigm that developed during the 19th century was extremely successful in explaining most physical phenomenon.
The Marxist interpretation of the French Revolution states that it was in essence a power struggle between the middle classes or the bourgeoisie and the upper classes, aristocracy and the nobility.
Actually, the word 'paradigm' itself comes from a 15th-century misunderstanding by a scientist who thought he was using a Greek word that meant the patterns in the stars linked with the passage of different seasons.
A paradigm is a model of fundamental importance in scientific or artistic fields.
The main opponent of the theory of plate tectonics, Arthur Holmes, was so upset by this new paradigm that he wrote an entire book on why it was wrong.
Paradigm is a system or concept that is so widely accepted that it becomes a standard by which something is judged.
Paradigm is a model or pattern that serves as an example or guide to later developments.
The term 'modern music' could be used to describe compositions written in a certain style or in a certain tradition. In this way it could be considered a paradigm of the respective art form, though it would never replace it entirely.
The idea that the human senses that enable an individual to make judgments about himself and his world is called a 'paradigm'.
A new theory or model is not immediately accepted by the scientific community, but it is slowly accepted as old theories are found to be less and less useful in terms of explaining newly discovered data.
Before 1859, the paradigm, or model, of the atom was that it was an planetary body, with electrons whirling around a nucleus.
The Marxist interpretation of the French Revolution states that it was in essence a power struggle between the middle classes or bourgeoisie and the upper classes, the aristocracy and nobility.
When Charles Darwin came up with the theory of evolution he created a new paradigm, or way of understanding life on earth.
The concept of the "rat race" is one that has been around for centuries.
The impact of World War II was so great that it changed many of the world's paradigms.
The 'individual-gene selection' explanation of human behavior is part of a broader theory called sociobiology.
The theory of plate tectonics became the dominant earth sciences paradigm despite a lack of supportive evidence for much of the first half of the 20th century.
For many of them, their face-off with the police and ultimate arrest was a bitter reminder that the communist paradigm on which they had modeled their lives was dead.
The world now has the benefit of a new paradigm of how human languages evolved and will shed light on how other aspects of human nature evolved.
One of the most important parts of a paradigm is the model of the atom which was provided by early modern science.
I thought your paper was an interesting paradigm shift away from the traditional approach of merely presenting facts.
The idea that life slowly evolved in a steady progression towards man's present form is the Darwinian concept of evolution, or the 'evolutionary paradigm', as some have called it.
Paradigm: a model or way of thinking that shapes the way you understand and experience things.
The "Conflict Thesis" was replaced by the "Intentional History Paradigm," which spans from 1863 to the present day.
In the past, many doctors believed that it was necessary to bleed patients to help purify their blood and that disease was spread through bad air. This collection of beliefs about how the world works is known as a medical paradigm.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'deduction'.
At the time, Einstein's theory of relativity was just one of many scientific paradigms, or frameworks for understanding physics, in which the concept of the world could be explained.
Paradigm Shift: From vaudeville to early cinema
The Semitic and the Indo-European language family both evolved from a common precursor language now referred to as "Proto-Human."
The idea that the Earth is at the centre of the universe and all other objects revolve around it was once a scientific truth, but that truth was challenged by the competing "paradigm" of Copernicus.
The new theory challenged the old status quo, or prevailing way of thinking, known as the Aristotelian or classical paradigm.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'further'.
The rise of technology such as the computer has created a new paradigm, and there is much speculation about which jobs will be performed by people and which will be taken over by computers.
The most important intellectual movement of the twentieth century was probably the rise of Relativism, which can be said to have laid the foundations for Postmodernism and its attack on the concept of an objective reality.
The New Archaeology which had emerged as a response to the fall of the diffusionist model of civilization origins, was nothing more than a misnomer for the old diffusionist paradigm dressed up in the vocabulary and hubris of science.
The theory of the gene, then, created a new paradigm in the life sciences.
The strong emphasis on math and science in the education of astronauts came to be known as the astronautics paradigm.
Newton's physics remained the dominant paradigm of science for over two centuries.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'prominent'.
In some important respects, he was a typical American of his generation.
A paradigm is a set of scientific beliefs, consisting of conclusions as well as working hypotheses.
The big bang theory is currently the most widely accepted scientific paradigm.
The word "paradigm" was first used in this sense by the philosopher of science, Thomas Kuhn who wrote about scientific paradigms in the 1960s.
A central concept in Thomas Kuhn's theory of scientific revolution, a paradigm is the constant environment surrounding scientists while they work.
The common perception of Neanderthals as stooping, dim-witted creatures that differed little from animals was overturned by the findings at the Nebel Valley in 1964.
The experimental evidence that supported the nuclear model was empirical; the evidence in favor of the solar model was theoretical. The older, established paradigm won out.
Paradigm shift is a term that originated from the field of history and it was later borrowed by the field of physics.
Paradigm: n.
In anthropology, one of the most important changes in thinking was the idea of viewing other cultures as a paradigm other than one of the centers of old world European power.
All previous explanations of the disappearance of the Neanderthals are replaced by this new paradigm.
The big bang is only a model to explain what happened, and to scientists it's no different from the idea that the world rests on the back of a giant turtle.
The theories of Copernicus, Galileo and Kepler form the foundation of the Scientific Revolution's paradigm.
Postmodernists believe that there is a paradigm shift every few decades.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'striking'.
While every student in the class has been taught what a 'paradigm' is, nobody knows what it means.
The discovery of the prehistoric paintings at Lascaux altered our whole conception of prehistoric people.
The Nazis envisioned expanding their Aryan people, so they desired more territory.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "replication".
The "Ancient Regime" of the eighteenth century was a system that tried to incorporate both monarchy and democracy, but was soon abandoned in favor of a more democratic approach.
Your word is "paradigm".
Paradigm: the framework of ideas and beliefs within which people view reality and behave.
There was a violent conflict between the native Indian tribes and the European settlers, which had dire social and political consequences for both groups.
The shift from the geocentric to the heliocentric model of the solar system, as propounded by Nicholas Copernicus.
The exchange of ideas across national borders was once limited by the fact that for most of the last two millennia ( ad), most people were restricted to their own villages, valleys and towns.
The theory of plate tectonics, which is the foundation of modern geology, was a breakthrough.
The new information retrieval paradigm has been heralded as a revolution in information retrieval by some, and criticised as a failure by others.
The theory of plate tectonics forms an important scientific paradigm, or way of understanding the world.
Alfred was certainly very correct in choosing his field, for it has undergone an enormous paradigm shift since his day.
The job of the students is to interpret the facts that they uncover in the documents, and this is where a paradigm comes in.
The modern understanding of disease as a microbial invasion of the body had to break down before the ancient germ theory of disease could begin to gain acceptance.
The new way of thinking and practice that emerges to challenge an old paradigm.
A paradigm is defined as a set of fundamental beliefs or principles.
Newton's ideas replaced the complex and esoteric system of 'natural magic' which had been established by scholars over the centuries since ancient Alexandria.


#paraphrase

You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'vary'.
What it basically says is 'look at all these interesting facts about the people who read this'
As Goethe put it, "He who cannot see the inner and outer voices which are perceptible in everything about him is, in my opinion, completely blind".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'introspection'.
Martin pondered for some time whether he would continue making films with his buddy George Lucas.
The following sentences have been copied from the websites listed below. You are asked to identify the sentence that contains a potentially false claim.
The closing of the Nevada Test Site (NTS) in 1992 has brought about the release of large quantities of radionuclides, including radium-226 and radon-222, into the atmosphere.
Rudyard Kipling's poem 'The Gods of the Copybook Headings' contains many sayings which are written in a style that suggests they are the words of a wise old man passing on his wisdom to the reader.
Its main purpose being to warn leaders, especially in the former British Empire, about the dangers of relying on laws not applicable to all members of the community.
The English Civil War was fought between the Parliamentarians and the Royalists.
The Oregon Petition is a misnamed document created by multiple phony "scientists" whose political views differ from those of the government. It says that there is "no evidence" on whether or not global warming exists.
The world's greatest scientists have attempted to discover the nature of light since ancient times.
CIV APP
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "lope".
The government desperately needed money to fight its war against Germany and Great Britain.
The first volume of the Cambridge Encyclopedia of Hunters is dedicated to an elaboration on the nature of monsters.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "hypothesis".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'rumination'.
You need to think about things in your life.
Professor: Paraphrasing is restating someone else's words using your own words.
Note: No points will be awarded if the "Paraphrase"
A good paraphrase should not introduce any concepts that are not present in the original passage.
The only way for the workers to improve their lives in a class-based system is to fight and achieve a revolution, putting them in power.
Professor: Recently a collection of modern art by an unknown was revealed to be in the possession of the widow of a recently deceased artist.
The professor has given you some italicised vocabulary words to be used in sentences; put them in the correct places.
The Norman Conquest was largely a change of leadership in which many Anglo-Saxon nobles maintained their position under the new Norman rulers.
The earliest birds were small, carnivorous dinosaurs that could run quickly on their hind legs.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
The Internet has had an enormous impact on the spread of democracy around the world.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reliability'.
Echoes of other battles, such as the American Civil War, can be detected in the fighting techniques that were used.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'impugn'.
The first law of social shaping states that the boundaries of any given culture are not immutable but are flexible and can change over time.
Some theorists argue that it gained power primarily through its control of popular sentiment, while others see it more as an alien force imposed upon the population
In the first two sentences of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels' Communist Manifesto, they welcomed the French Revolution, which resulted in Napoleon's seizure of power.
Paraphrasing is restating another person's ideas in your own words.
The previous questions contained sentences in which the key words had been moved around. This question contains sentence in which the original meaning of the words has been retained, but in a different order.
As the American economy changes, more and more families are forced to rely on a mother's paycheck instead of a father's.
The Dreyfus case was a miscarriage of justice in nineteenth century France, in which an innocent Jewish army officer was set up and wrongly accused of treason.
The author of this book has attempted to convey the gist of a particular work or idea expressed by someone else in an interesting and engaging way.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'etymology'.
This is a variation of a theme by Haydn and is usually a rapid piece.
In other words, it is not necessary to know the intentions of historical agents in order to understand history.
Elizabeth I of England was also a major force in European politics; however, her main concerns were in the Ottoman and Spanish threats against England.
The former British Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, was primarily a conservative who placed a lot of emphasis on individual responsibility and the ability of free markets to regulate themselves.
The article states that there are several groups of people in the world for which this theory explains the origins of the population.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'contentious'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'corroboration'.
The French revolution was mainly caused by economic factors.
1. The suspicion of corruption caused riots, and the government fell.
The song suggests that the speaker's girl is taking too long to pack for a trip. He tells her to hurry, because he doesn't want to miss the kickoff.
The Thirty Years' War was a European religious war fought between 1618 and 1648, which involved most of the major continental powers.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apocalypse'.
The use of ‘Parliament' by the citizens of the United States was first in 1774, and strengthened two years later with the beginning of the war.
In the late eighteenth century there were two different interpretations of what was then known as "animal electricity" : one was the "Water"
‘Unequal burdens should be carried by those who are more able, as well as by those whose self-interest is involved in the task.
The first 'Three-Self Conference' was held in Shanghai in April 1960.
The German philosopher Martin Heidegger has been interpreted as saying that man belongs to a wider community that exists in relationship to the environment around it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "distinctive".
The idea of a nation state was a development in the 17th century.
Shay: this piece of writing is actually a description, not a paraphrase.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reconnaissance".
The light within the cage begins blinking faster, and you feel an even greater pressure to guess the word.
The geneticists at the university have shown that there are in fact important sections of DNA which do not code for proteins.
"The Great Restoration" was a term used to describe the period in which the monarchy was at its strongest, between 1660 and 1688.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fantasy'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'to triumph'.
The success of fascism in the interwar years has been owed to the fact that it provided straightforward solutions to complex problems, many of which were due to the effects of industrialisation on society, and in addition it allowed the individual to identify with and
The historian can never really know what happened in the past. All evidence is open to interpretation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "intensified".
The shift from the government based on the rule of law to the government based on men occurred because European military leaders in the early modern era had incentives to create larger armies independently of the central government.
In other words, the fact that something is written in a textbook is no guarantee that it is true.
The law states that no one shall be deprived of his life, liberty or property without due process of law, and that private property shall not be taken for public use without just compensation.
The main causes of the French revolution were the heavy taxes and food shortages on the population, this caused people to believe that the government had to change.
Citizenship means being a member of a nation, and having certain rights and protection under the law.
Dr. Ehrlichman's letter to John Dean is a
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'canvas'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'paradigm'.
Naturally, the government sent a representative to retrieve the invention.
For (some people in) the nineteenth century, emigrating to the United States was the same as travelling to an alien planet.
N.B. You now know the procedure to get the multiple-choice questions right every time.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'superiority'.
The Prime Minister's speech, which was written by his advisors, contains a few direct quotes from Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech. In his speech, the Prime Minister has changed or "paraphrased"
A "paraphrase" is a restatement of the essential meaning of another person's words without copying the words themselves.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cause'.
Professor: The causes of WWI are complex and controversial.
Paraphrasing is simply rephrasing someone else's words.
There is no recording for 'paraphrase', but there is one for 'pandemonium'.
However beneficial the news may be, it is unlikely to have any effect on the immediate situation, which is one of uncertainty.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "intertwined".
The theory that the Earth has suffered catastrophic changes in the past and that these changes affected every part of the Earth's surface, including the oceans and possibly even outer space is corroborated by discoveries made in many diverse areas of science.
For step one, you are given a paragraph of blanks which contain missing words. You have to select from five options which one is the best substitution for that blank..
In layman's terms, the findings imply that the inherited genetic material from which humans have evolved worldwide has been shared to a large extent among different races.
You ask the professor to paraphrase the last highlighted sentence.
The most important thing the student needs to do is to learn how to think, rather than learning out to repeat what other people think.
The way that the data was gathered and interpreted involved an assumption that the objects that were in the graves were owned by the people in the graves.
Traditionally, many historians believed that the war was all about political power while more recently some have argued that it was about religion or even a complex mixture of various issues.
The common feature of all these theories is their attempt to interpret the facts of the French Revolution to support the existing theories of the scholars. There goal is to explain rather than examine what actually happened.
The conclusions that can be drawn are only of importance to the few people who are professional linguists or historians.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "between".
In the first volume of his seminal work "On the Origin of Species"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "beginning".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "template".
The American Revolution was a political and military struggle between the Kingdom of Great Britain and thirteen British colonies in North America, which resisted British Government's attempts to manage them as a dependent colonial territory.


#paramount

The state continues to have a paramount role in determining the lives of its people.
The main concern of the Spanish government has always been its relations with the United States, as it is the paramount political and military power in the world at this time.
The Thirty Years' War was a 17th-century religious battle fought primarily in central Europe.
Professor: For medieval people paramount was importance of doing business, trading and earning money.
Option 2: Medicine
As the pain grew more and more intense, she decided to have a caesarean birth.
Linguists consider the Basque language to be the best remaining evidence of a primate language from which all others were descended.
The case was settled out of court, so there are no legal precedents that are paramount.
Leading physicians and the Church considered scientists' claims about disease to be a serious challenge to their authority, so they fought back by insisting that it was paramount to God's power.
However, the fear that such an event could take place again had been paramount before the war and was used in a most effective way by the Nazis
The British Empire was, during the late 19th century and early 20th century, one of the major paramount powers in the world.
The sovereignty of Native American tribes was held at the Paramount Chief,who had numerous sub-chieftains beneath him.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "paradigm".
The theory of relativity had less of a role in the final outcome of the world war than did air power. Air power was more important.
However, the fundamental factor of production is land and during this period the amount of land under effective management increased only slightly.
These records include certain letters written by Elizabeth I when she was a princess, and are known as the "paramount" records of English history.
The Church had always held that ‘paramount law' was that which had been handed down from God to man through the medium of his representatives on earth, the Pope and the Bishops.
The social causes for the rise of totalitarianism were many and varied, but among the paramount ones were industrialization, urbanization and a changing social structure.
In the 18th century, the East India Company became so important and powerful that it was effectively the paramount political power in the region.
The discovery of the other chamber and its contents was the most important find of the century, and Carter was convinced that it would solve the riddle of the Ramesside princess and her missing grave goods.
The central bank's primary concern is maintaining the status quo.
The U.S. Supreme Court in Washington is considered to be the paramount legal body in the country.
The massive fall in population during the Black Death was actually a blessing in disguise that paved the way for the first modern, secular societies to appear, with a liberal admixture of parliaments and common law courts, a few hundred years later.
The power of nobles in England was treated as less important by the monarch.
The success of the German attack was aided by the Russian revolution (paramount reason)
Victoria was not only a paramour for the emperor, but also a friend and confidant.
During the period known as 'paramount imperialism', mighty European nations raced to obtain territories in Africa and Asia.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apostasy'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'mendacity'.
She should have known better than to believe his mendacity.
Unlike the other religions, Catholicism was paramount in both England and France; most people were Christian.
The leading theories about the causes of the crash are linked to rampant sub-prime lending and the USA's reliance on imported oil, which made it vulnerable to increases in the price of oil.
A good leader is aware of their primary responsibility to the people.
In the eighteenth century , agriculture and industry were of paramount importance in Europe.
Another view, first argued by Thomas Hobbes in his work "Leviathan", was that government was created by a contract among individuals.
The existence of a being that is responsible for the creation and governance of the universe, or of a multiverse, and whose power is superior to that of all other beings in that universe
"The idea that our fate is written in the stars is a paramount example of determinism, and no matter how certain Sextus seems about Scorpicula's fate, the fact remains that free will exists."
The report concluded that opportunities for education and employment were paramount for the underprivileged.
The British Empire was paramount in the fight against slavery from the late 18th century onwards.
Some historians believe the concept of the divine right of kings was a way of making unpopular medieval monarchs seem less like tyrants and more like servants or instruments of God.
The Thirty Years' War was a 17th-century religious battle fought primarily in central Europe, making the rulers and citizens of the various countries fight one another rather than teaming up against external enemies such as the Turks, who were becoming a
The religion of the Incas was incalculably superior to any religion that Europe had experienced. It was arguably the paramount challenge to Christianity as theSpain-pervaded South America during the 16th century.
Today, economists recognise that resources are not always distributed to their most paramount potential.
The king's desire to remain paramount leader of the government was so strong that it was only with great difficulty that those close to him persuaded him he should not be present in London while the plague was there.
He argued that the concept of ‘nature' bears the three pronged signifier of a paramount idea, in that each warrants an equal footing, and thus nature represents an artificial conundrum.
He was a paramount chief and a follower of nonviolent resistance.
The discovery of penicillin was made in 1928 by a British scientist Dr.
At the end of the War of 1812, the United States attempted to pressure Britain into returning some of the American ships and property it had seized.
It was of paramount importance that the protesters remain non-violent.
Although it was no longer considered the primary seat of power, Istanbul remained economically and culturally paramount under the Ottoman Empire.
The Cold War was at times more of an obsession for paramount leaders on each side than a real concern.
Necessity became the mother of invention, and the brain became paramount; it was necessary to preserve and extend life.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "morality".
The conquest of the Inca by Spain involved death and depopulation on a large scale. It has been estimated that as a direct result of the Conquest, the population of the New World was reduced by 90% to 99%.
Even though the other kings were still officially their bosses, they lost all their power and became no more than local officials with titles. The church was now paramount in the lives of everyday people.
In the 18th century, the press, which was still a fairly new invention, became more common and newspapers were more often printed.
However, the urge to preserve civilization was considered paramount.
Although the early humanists rejected some of the beliefs and practices of the Catholic Church, they believed that religious faith was paramount to a civilized society and were reluctant to discard wholesale those elements of medieval Christianity that didn't conflict with the classical ideals they embraced
"If your enemy is stronger than you and conditions are such that defeat is possible, then you must find ways to reconcile."... it says the paramount rule of survival for a tribe or a nation.
The British Government was not prepared to grant India its independence, since they felt that retaining control over the subcontinent was of paramount importance, for both strategic and economic reasons.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'patronize'.
You try to explain to the security guard that it was all a big mistake, but he won't even let you finish your sentence.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "overthrow".
The door finally opens!
However, the power of the biotechnology industry remains paramount and it is, of course, these companies that decide what should or shouldn't be grown on these fields.
Euripides's play 'The Trojan Women' is a condemnation of war, especially the supreme commander of the Trojans, he is generally seen as a bigger culprit than even the Greeks who sacked the city, and whose paramount concern
In the 1960s there was a paramount need for children's books that reflected urban life.
However, the one thing that bonded them together was their common hatred for the British Empire and their desire to see it brought down, a feeling shared by nearly every colonist in North America.
Eventually the military was brought under civilian control, and it became apparent that an efficient way of running the country was paramount, meaning there was no need for elections.
The office of chancellor soon became paramount, and this was the beginning of Germany as an entity.
The events of the last few days had filled them both with hope that their experiment would culminate with the paramount event in human history.
The divine right of kings was the belief that a monarch is subject to no earthly authority, granting him supreme jurisdiction over the people and empire.
Not everyone agreed that maintaining the status quo was paramount.
The nationalist struggle during World War I had among its aims paramount the unification of all Slovenes.
The overwhelming desire of the European powers to make and to control new empires in the nineteenth century in Africa and Asia was ultimately at the root of the decline and fall of paramount colonial powers such as England, France, Spain and Portugal.
One of the most common misconceptions about the Romans is that they lived in a democracy.
Most of the issues that the English colonists faced, such as the fur trade, land ownership and wars with American Indians were actually of little or no economic significance to England, which enjoyed a buoyant economy.
For the British, the war with the Boers became a war of paramount importance.
The rise of the Catholic Church is a complex historical process, but its primacy in medieval Europe is paramount.
While others criticized the reliance on paper instruments, Stravinsky felt that their paramount importance was not to be denied.
The success of the American War of Independence greatly increased belief in the idea of popular government being paramount.
The original intent of the Magna Carta was to limit the monarch's supremacy and establish the rights of his barons.
The word ‘paramount' first appears in the 1660s as a legal term meaning ‘highest in authority or power'
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apocalypse'.
Professor: The center of Ireland is more mountainous than England and France, and its ever-shifting, mineral-rich bedrock altered history's course repeatedly.
The state remained paramount in all matters of public concern and interest, for the common good of all citizens.
Although not a view shared by everyone in the movement, the ideology of anarchism has been seen by some to support online communities such as 4chan as they promote freedom from supreme authorities and value anarchy, seeing them as paramount to anarchist ideology.
As the presidential elections loomed the supreme court handed down its ruling on the paramount issue of the day, the re-establishment of gold.
But the most important figure in the Baptist church, the one whom all Europeans looked to for information about the colony, was John Smith.
The Church and the aristocracy were, during this time, both fighting for power and influence in various European states.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'abhorrent'.
Professor: he history of human society has been and continues to be one of slavery.
The government's concern with and support of the film industry as it is today with its paramount cultural position.
The rise of the city state is a paramount development in human history.
The free public health care system is clearly of paramount importance for all citizens.
There are basic human rights that are fundamental to the structure of modern society.
The doctrine that one's racial background is paramount was a contributing factor in the 1924 Immigration Act.
He claimed that the Catholic Church had become increasingly corrupt and was primarily responsible for turning Western Europe away from Greek philosophy.
The importance of the king within his realm was second to that of the Pope, who was divinely appointed as the paramount head of the church.
"(His colleagues say) that his paramount objective (was) to fill pages with interesting information and fund research."
The United States today has an economy that is only a little larger than that of Brazil, but its population is paramount to that of India and China.
The real problem was the Constitution did nothing to stop the increasing number of issues. It soon became clear that the issue of slavery would be paramount.
While the religious factions fought over the correct nature of Jesus' soul, they did agree that it was a paramount, crucial, and defining feature of his existence.
It is untrue that either food or cigarettes are more paramount to you than your daughter.
The concept of nation-state was made paramount by the Peace of Westphalia in 1648.
The Dutch dominated the seas, and the most powerful men in New York and Pennsylvania were merchants, so it made sense for those two provinces to want to remain neutral.
"Of course, the events of the Russian Revolution were more dramatic, and its consequences are still far reaching nowadays, but I think it is a worthy topic for discussion. Don't you agree?"


#persuade

Samuel has agreed to meet with Fred to persuade him to sell his business to us.
"You persuaded me."
The book was written for general readers and contains passages such as: 'John Smith of Jamestown was the first Englishman to persuade the Native Americans that he was a god.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'satellite'.
The United States has found a lot of uses for satellites.
The sentence you are looking for is:
Several students claimed that they had been forced to remove their clothing and accept acts of fellatio at his home, and that he had tried to persuade them into more intrusive sexual activity.
But the woodiness isn't merely a superficial effect, it suggests that myelin, the substance that forms around nerve fibres and allows messages to travel along them faster was of a similar origin to lignin, the cement-like substance that
(a) In general, people tend to persuade themselves more easily than they can persuade others.
The Cuban president is urging the United States to negotiate in order to achieve a settlement and avoid war, which no one wants.
The German field marshal Erwin Rommel, who was popularly known as the 'Desert Fox', was charged with high treason and persuaded to commit suicide.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word: "Undermine".
A fissure in the bedrock had undermined the foundations of the house.
Jane Austen's main way of persuading her readers that women are deep, intellectual beings, not shallow and silly, is to show how important the relationships between people can be.
The people in the town immediately tried to persuade the government not to build the factory there.
George Washington's greatest challenge as commander in chief of the new republic's army was to persuade the various state governments to give him soldiers and money, and then to persuade his soldiers to fight.
The new theories of Copernicus persuaded Galileo that he could explain the motions of the planets more simply and elegantly with his new model.
"Edison and the group persuaded Congress that a war was necessary for economic reasons."
Socrates believed everyone should question everything and used his tremendous charisma and the logic and the power of his argument to persuade others to think critically.
The contract you're being asked to sign has several provisions that you find you don't agree with, but you're able to persuade the company's representatives to make some changes.
In 1691, King William and Queen Mary made a list of people who they wished to be executed based on their religion.
It is often difficult to persuade young people of the importance of history.
The Emancipation Proclamation by Abraham Lincoln is one of the most famous examples in history of a single document persuading millions of people to change an opinion.
The first big political test will be whether you can persuade the rest of the members of your party to vote for you as its new leader.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'derive'.
The development of mass media in the late 20th century allowed advertisers to persuade people to buy things they didn't need,
He said he would agree to the new terms if he could successfully persuade the other two publishers.
Somehow the debate is still raging around exactly how much confidence we can have in these conclusions, and what they imply about our understanding of the nature of humanity, and how it is that we create our own conditions.
"The idea of teaching children to persuade rather than to inform is acceptable neither to me nor, I think to anyone with a love of children."
The government does not have the power to justly tax citizens in order to distribute wealth among them, because that would imply that the government owns its citizens property and earnings.
I will therefore attempt to persuade you that it is about time that we considered the possibility.
Hitler would later unsuccessfully attempt to persuade Joseph Stalin of the benefit of joining the Axis,
My parents do not allow me to have a pet, but I sometimes try to persuade them when they are
At the beginning of World War II, Churchill was charged with winning over the USA to support the war effort, with Great Britain too financially and militarily exhausted to continue fighting alone against the military strength of Germany and Italy.
The town leaders in the New England colonies had to persuade their citizens to obey the laws set by the British government.
The conclusions are based on tenuous evidence and are probably an attempt to persuade the public that de-regulating firearms makes us safer.
The artist must have considerable technical skill in order to convince viewers that a blank piece of canvas is a window into another world; yet at the same time he or she must know when to turn back from the abyss of incoherence and incomprehensibility
Dieticians try to persuade people to eat a balanced diet
I have had to try to persuade the other supervisors to take on some of my students who are in danger of failing.
It is truly difficult to persuade someone of something if they are not in an appropriate state of mind to begin with.
Ophelia persuades her father to give Hamlet a job as captain of the guards while she will persuade Polonius for his son Laertes to accompany him.
The teacher tried to persuade her students not to smoke.
Some scientists have become so persuaded of the view that the world faces serious overpopulation problems that they are prepared to countenance more radical measures.
Kant's only attempt to persuade the public to accept his views was in an essay entitled 'An Answer to the Question: What is Enlightenment?'
The new theories of Copernicus persuaded Galileo that it might be possible to overthrow other scientific ideas that were not based
He didn't believe that he could win her heart through his writing alone; he would have to persuade her to marry him by more traditional means.
Thoreau spends much of the essay discussing how different people find it easy to convince themselves that their actions are justified, even if what they are doing is blatantly immoral.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "antidote".
It is often difficult to persuade people to change their minds, especially when it comes to beliefs which are important to them.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "audience".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "insist".
Many of the children were persuaded to do volunteer work; some were even persuaded to study subjects they disliked.
The Church never managed to completely persuade itself, and thus the general populace, that Galileo was correct.
The economist thinks that the most effective way of persuading people to recycle is to educate them.
Many studies have tried to persuade women that an addiction to nicotine is responsible for many health problems they suffer, not just during pregnancy.
There are three main ways in which you might try to persuade people of the worth of your idea.
In order to persuade the government to give them more money, the school's head suggests holding a concert in aid of the hospital.
He hoped that the concessions he had made in the Duma would persuade some of his opponents to end their boycott of the parliament.
It is very difficult to persuade some people of anything.
Zadok and others are trying to persuade the parliament to issue a decree that anyone caught wearing a mask or not bowing to the king will be executed.
The leaders of The Enlightenment wanted to persuade the rulers of Europe to form a more perfect society.
The main idea T.S. Eliot uses in "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" to persuade the reader that he is a coward is the way he openly expresses his feelings of anxiety and depression.
‘You can't just sit here and do nothing,' Tom insisted, trying to persuade her to help him.
It was the best film you had seen, and you were determined to try and persuade your friends to see it.
Cicero persuaded the jury to sentence Catiline's co-conspirators to death
Confronted with the evidence, my brother, who had a strong aversion to doing military service, tried to persuade the board that even though he was of age he suffered from a medical condition that exempted him from service.
The first step in this plan is to persuade European governments to admit both Turkey and the Palestinian Authority as member nations.
The pressure has led the team to attempt to persuade the leaders of the opposing school that their theory is wrong, a task that has proved futile so far.
Senator Russell attempted to persuade his fellow senators that the government should recognize the Confederacy, as he felt that it would be better if they were part of the nation again as opposed to an independent country in the middle of North America.
My father was a great chess player, and he believed that in order to become good, you had to study the game. He said that it wasn't just important to know how the pieces moved but also why they should be moved that way.
The messages urge Members of Parliament to support the bill to help "people with learning difficulties, their relatives and carers" by "banning the physical abuse of people with learning difficulties and removing their legal rights to refuse medication".
After the Second World War, many German officers were tried by the Allies for war crimes; these trials became known as the Nuremberg Trials.
A major reason why the Jacobins were able to so persuade the people of France to support them was that they promised all men equal rights.
Professor:The following words appear in our 2004 word list. How many do you recognize?
Some of the words are in the past tenses, some are nouns while others are verbs and adjectives.
Trying to convince computer users that they should learn a programming language is a bit like trying to convince fish that they should wear shoes; it isn't going to happen.
The professional socialisation of teachers is quite extensive, both in the US and in the UK, to the point where private schools have been accused of deliberately hiring gays and minorities for the express purpose of proselytizing their students.
Rene Descartes' critique of the intricate philosophies of the time, such as those of Aristotle, serves as an excellent example of why stylistic devices such as irony are necessary in an argument.
His second doctrine is that moral values exist outside the individual human mind and can be discovered, in fact all true philosophers persuade man to do something, hence ethics is basically an applied philosophy of some kind.
Colonial newspapers of the eighteenth century persuaded readers of the benefits of empire.
It is the duty of the historian to look for and try to understand the motivations that underlay past events: this is called the 'intentional' or 'purposive' approach to history.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'rebel'.
You have the right to name one person who could persuade the judge to see you. This is of course provided that this person is willing to help you.
This is part of the discourse between two of the three theological students from yesterday's conversation; the "man" is urging his companions to go with him to a prayer meeting, and the "tax-collector" is expressing reservations.
The politician refused to advocate a particular course of action, because he didn't want to be accused of trying to influence the outcome.
The more an architect insists his or her building is a work of art that stands on its own, the more the architect needs to persuade others—or, often, that same community—to accept this perception.
He didn't try to directly persuade people of his ideology but instead attacked those who disagreed with him most vehemently.
Some teachers give students the task of writing an essay to persuade someone of a certain point of view.
The trial was widely criticized by the public as nothing but a sham to persuade people that this treatment was beneficial when in fact it might be dangerous.
A: Tom believes that a war with Iraq is not in the US's best interests, and his speeches and arguments help persuade other representatives to agree with him.
It is also possible that Shakespeare's plays were actually written by the Earl of Oxford, a well-educated aristocrat who was known to have written several plays that were published under different names at the time, and that it was he,
Efforts to persuade the government to join the war effort were hampered by the fact that the country was not helped by widespread riots caused by the shortage of basic goods.
Due to the influence of their parents, Oscar and Wally manage to persuade their sister into shutting up about what she saw.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'sway'.
What would happen next was clearly up to the person who held the power, and this person had been most acutely swayed by Elizabeth's speech.
The film tries to persuade us that it's okay not to have plans for the future.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "commence".
With the commencement of the war, food shortages became worse and violence increased markedly.
However, the government doesn't seem interested in persuading them to stay.
We are not sure of the precise way in which nicotine works to calm the brain, but whatever the mechanism, it is clear that people can use it to persuade themselves that a whole range of different activities are 'doing something positive for their health.
Her family's long-time servants were just the sort of people she could persuade to help her.
Many great thinkers wrote of the idea that species were permanent and couldn't or shouldn't be changed, while others argued that situations should be improved and nature shaped to human purpose.
So you have to convince him that what he is doing is wrong.
The economist thinks humans are rational and sensible creatures who only ever do things that make logical sense and are never influenced by abstract ideas or ideologies like patriotism, and so trying to persuade people by appealing to such things is pointless.
The argument that natural remedies can effectively treat illnesses like cancer are without scientific basis and are purely a matter of belief which can be persuasively marketed to the public.


#plausible

The idea that animals might have some sort of sophisticated inner life or mental experience that is on a par with humans has always seemed plausible to me.
The idea that plants feel pain is still a contentious issue, with many leading experts believing that it is not yet proven that other organisms than humans have the capacity to feel pain.
Some people at the time thought it a plausible idea to use regeneration as a punishment for criminals.
"One explanation is that the explosion was in a sparsely populated area and hence no evidence was found," he says, which sounds rather implausible.
It isn't quite clear what the ancient Thracians believed about their afterlife, but their placid appearance in contrast to the realistic or horrific depiction of other ancient peoples in death implies they believed in some sort of pleasant afterlife.
Despite the popular perception that an increase in the number of executions lessens the amount of murders, a comparison between Texas and Californian's homicide rates shows that this isn't the case, and this is due to the fact that criminals are sufficiently intelligent
It isn't enough to rely on reports of uncertain accuracy from a spot distant from the scene of the action and written many months after the events in question.
Clearly, the most plausible route is to turn the worm into an airport food taster first, then let it bite you after a couple of days.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "treaties".
Passage 3
Professor: The best way to get a clear view of ancient history is to examine the evidence and then provide the theory which fits that evidence most logically and plausibly.
After the quiz, you are taken back to your door.
The conclusions of the study are exciting, but somewhat implausible because of the small number of participants.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'consensus'.
It was possible to make the argument that in certain respects the rise of new authoritarian leaders might be a good thing, since in some ways it is better to have a strong leader who is predictable rather than one who is potentially unstable and more likely to
The lack of plausible alternatives is further indication that this is the most likely hypothesis.
A theory is plausible if it can be made to fit with the known facts, but in such a way that it might later proved to be wrong.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'odyssey'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "regardless".
The argument was so well constructed that it was hard to attack; It was logically tight and intelligently reasoned, and although it contained some speculation, it was never unreasonable.
While he might be able to come up with a story about how he got the money that is plausible enough for people to believe it, the authorities are still going to search his house.
The religious beliefs of people under eighteen are not necessarily logical, but many adults believe them to be plausible if somewhat misguided.
Although most of its speculations are plausible, the theory still has not been proven.
While what the aliens are saying may well be true, it is not very plausible given what we know about them.
The most common name for the English conquest of Ireland during the Middle Ages is "The Hunger", a near-starvation genocide that reduced the population by at least half.
The first thing that we notice about the creature is its teeth, and the assumption that all humans must have teeth is certainly a reasonable one given that you yourself are human.
The basic idea is not implausible, but the notion that they could have found their way to North America inside a ten-story building is obviously ridiculous.
His proposal seemed plausible at the time but was never actually put into practice.
The theory that the fall of the Roman Empire was due to lead poisoning from the lead-contaminated wine
Unfortunately, this doesn't explain why the hypothetical atom would come together in the first place, or how. A completely new theory is needed before this hypothesis can become plausible.
But reports that the road was blocked by debris made the journey impossible, or at least too dangerous to be plausible
"They offer the only plausible explanation of the alarming rise in incidence of these tumors in the young."
'Plausible' could therefore refer to an action, policy or statement that is true, realistic or achievable.
The first explanation that comes to mind is a news story you read the other day about how violent crime
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
In some cases the changes that take place are only cosmetic, but in others they may be beneficial in terms of natural selection.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'illusory', you receive the following sentence:
He quickly saw the result as a plausible interpretation of his equation, even though he said that this was not the intended purpose of his work.
The Japanese were continuing to lose ground and this seemed to him the most plausible explanation.
His argument that European integration will proceed in a positive direction and NATO will not splinter is very plausible.
The findings of the geneticists are not very easy to accept, but they're plausible.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "scepticism".
The presence of an identical bone in both creatures, and its location in exactly the same place, is far too much of a coincidence to be a plausible explanation for the fossil record.
Professor: Before the 16th century it was thought that all diseases had supernatural causes.
Professor: However, in 1543, the publication of De corporis humani fabrica ("On the Structure of the Human Body"
He said that slaves were not treated inhumanely, as some humanitarians claimed, but rather that they were essential for the economy to function. This was a plausible argument, and it silenced many critics.
It is implausible that the French army would leave the strategically important island of Malta undefended.
The invasion was obviously a brilliant, and in some ways plausible, strategy.
Wesbury successfully argued that the evidence was too insubstantial and that the allegations were merely inconclusive speculation and as such cou
After the collapse of the Soviet Union in the early 90's, consensus opinion shifted even more toward supporting democracy as an infinitely preferable system to totalitarianism.
Mussolini's Fascists were able to seize power in certain areas of Italy partly because many classes of the population, such as poor peasants, found his promises of order, power and greatness for Italy at least as plausible as the claims of Socialism
For a solution to be considered plausible, it needs to have a minimum of two independent
A plausible explanation for why the first Neanderthal populations in Europe died out about 40,000 years ago while a second wave, arriving from the Middle East, survived is that the first group lacked language, so couldn't communicate with other early humans in
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'maintain'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hinder'.
Professor:There is the usual scientific skepticism about any historical work on astronomy or pre-Christian religion, but Ravilious' claims do appear to be plausible.
The theory that all life is descended from a single common ancestor is it plausible, but there are many holes that need to be filled.
In court, the defense attorney would attempt to make her story seem plausible.
Professor: The argument they put forward seems plausible, but many linguists disagree with it.
"For the purposes of this class, an invention is defined as a mechanical or computational device which has been designed for a practical purpose" (Wong, T.
In order to become a police officer in New York, you need at least a college degree, and most of the officers have applied to the force after completing a four-year university program.
The only plausible explanation was that he had memorized the map.
It was important, however, to involve as wide a group as possible, since anything less would have been implausible.
A theory that's plausible is a theory that seems reasonable or logical.
A lead coffin was found in a double burial of a man and a woman thought to be warrior knights.
It is still plausible that the speech was written by her advisor and she was simply reading it, but that is not nearly as interesting as the idea of her having original ideas.
They could convince only lower-ranking officers and some of the foot soldiers, most of whom were just farmers and peasants with no training; for them, this was a step up.
The idea that the world was created in six days was of course a mere speculation with little theoretical basis and no empirical evidence to support it.
A plausible cause of the extinction of the dinosaurs is the so-called asteroid theory
One of the difficulties in proving this theory is that the only written records available are from victors, which might have falsified some parts of history.
It is not surprising that he found her argument for the use of genetic engineering in humans to be implausible.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'religious'.
Although the earliest logograms are attested from around 5000 years ago in the early Sumerian Longhand script, most writing is systematic and had developed only in the last few thousand years, and many scholars think that the development of complex writing systems
To anyone without any real understanding of the situation, the allegations sound as plausible as they are sensational.
In the early Middle Ages, only a few monasteries could afford to own libraries and books were very rare and very valuable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'relationship'.
Yet many of the charges against McCarthy were far from plausible.
What may have passed as a plausible hypothesis a century ago would be laughed at today by any reputable scholar.
It is impossible to guess what the scientists were thinking when they carried out this experiment, but their behavior in the video is not implausible given what the researchers know about such experiments.
It is hard to understand how such a relatively small number of people seized power and imposed a new system with such far-reaching and long-lasting implications for the whole of society.
In addition, one of the main difficulties he faces is that genuine scandal stories are few and far between as stories that might damage a politician's career have to be plausible.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'argue'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'solar'.
In the old days, the Church used religion to maintain order in society. Nowadays, most people are more into making money; as a result, governments use propaganda to promote the idea that we should all go out and get richer.
Maintaining a positive self-image in the face of all the evidence that the world is a terrible and terrifying place may seem like an implausible strategy for survival, but it seems to be one that works for some people.
However, wild swings back and forth in the stock market are not plausible, since this is not likely to happen.
It seems much more plausible that the British army would have been able to hold on to India without having to worry too much about the complicated politics of the region.
His explanation that he did not accept a bribe is certainly plausible, but it hardly seems likely that the MP would have admitted to it if it were not true.
Professor: The fact that you've raised a fair point about the apparent implausibility of his escape plan doesn't necessarily mean that he won't try it anyway.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reconnaissance'.
The government claimed this new law would solve all reasonable prison sentences.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unique'.
Frisian is believed to be the closest living language to Old English.
I assumed that he was lying when he said he was ill because it seemed too plausible an excuse.
Is it plausible that a time traveler with knowledge of the future would try to stop the September 11 attacks?
It was definitely plausible that the law would have been overturned.
But the problem was that Brandt did not have the slightest idea how the program worked, it might even be possible that it contained an inherent error which arose during the compilation and was therefore entirely reliant on the quality of the compiler itself, it might
All the evidence revealed in the London Incident pointed to its being a door between dimensions, but opening it would have had unforeseeable implications
But Daniel's attempt to change religious institutions was never going to be easy, let alone possible, because religion is one of the most fundamental aspects in human culture, and the Catholic Church is arguably the world's first native global corporation.
The best way to assess a plausible series of steps that lead from A to Z is to make a construct a family tree, or phylogeny, and look for the shortest distance from A to Z.
Even as president, Kennedy had a strong grasp on the plausible, and would often say that there were two kinds of ideas: the sensible and the totally unworkable.
Professor: The theory that aliens may have once visited Earth was long been a plausible theory among most scientists as no evidence had ever been found showing that the ancient Egyptians didn't receive help in their construction of impressive feats such as the pyramids.
The court ruled that a person cannot be guilty of murdering someone if their actions were plausible.
The theory that the king was killed by a group of religious radicals who wanted to make England Catholic again is the most plausible explanation for the evidence.


#plethora

The 19th-century Industrial Revolution was responsible for a plethora of inventions that are now used in everyday life.
The plays of William Shakespeare are a veritable gold mine of words that have entered the English language, including a plethora of verbs, such as "darken", "extort", "gild", and "discombobulate".
The new movie is a real plethora of special effects and stars all the latest heartthrobs.
There is a plethora of Christian denominations in the United States.
In choosing a bride, Louis had not been thinking of romance or love.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "allegedly".
The evidence clearly shows that by the end of the Stone Age, roughly ten thousand years ago, there was a plethora of religions in almost every society on earth.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "repercussions".
The transition from agriculture to industry brought about a plethora of inventions and innovations that increased the standard of living for most individuals.
A plethora of important inventions came out of the Victorian period.
A new law was passed, which considerably reduced women's rights and changed the whole tenor of the movement.
The 1960s were a time of great social change, a time when the act of expressing yourself was de rigueur and antithetical to the kinds of bourgeois values expressed in art throughout a good part of the nineteenth century and, earlier, in
The Nineteenth century was a golden age for the Greeks, a period of weakness and strife for the Romans, but for the English it was neither.
There was a plethora (excessive amount) of monarchs known as petty kings, or medieval countryside landlords.
A plethora of different theories exist, including popular culture theory, which states that people want to read about people similar to them.
Another reason women tended to marry early was that infant mortality was very high and most women lost at least one child; thus, marriage would provide a mother with a support system and someone to help with the daily chores of life.
The following letter's contents seemed to be a plea for assistance and a statement of gratitude to Professor Prentice from a man in Guernsey.
A potential source of trouble when treating addiction is the plethora of different substances which cause it.
The city has a sky-scraping plethora of banks, insurance companies and stock exchanges.
Most of the buildings on the university campus are made of brown brick, a welcome antidote to the plethora of pastel-colored buildings you saw while walking through the mall a few minutes ago.
The Concise Oxford English Dictionary gives more than forty definitions of the word "plethora" but it's most common usage is an excess of something, usually of a desirable thing.
The discovery of a plethora of new medicines, many using the powerful magic which had always been a part of life but ignored by "civilized" people for centuries, soon led to a boom in the medical community.
A potential problem today is that there is a plethora of diets advising people on what and what not to eat.
Twenty-six is a very small number of complements to the plethora of attitudinal adjectives that describe human cognition.
This was a good use of the plethora of historical knowledge that you have acquired over the years.
The United States has a plethora of musical styles, some of which are blues, ragtime, rock, and the rhythm and blues.
There was more than a plethora of research occurring in Africa on immunization, even before the polio vaccine was discovered.
It is an embarrassment of archaeological riches, a veritable plethora of ancient remains.
The plethora of information and dramatic change of events has left you reeling.
An embarrassment of plethora is a massive excess or overabundance.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intertwined'.
It is often argued that today's world is more interdependent than ever before.
The internet has provided a plethora of new opportunities for busy people.
She accepted his choice of topic with a plethora of tips on where to look for information, and how she thought the different theories on the topic hung together.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'dichotomy'.
Now push the palm button again when ready to continue.
Many young Americans listen to hip-hop music, a cultural product with its own language that provides a plethora of examples.
He had a plethora of serious medical problems (chiefly psychological in nature) which caused him to be anti-social.
While the residents in the affluent city areas may complain about a plethora of social problems, the situation in the
Excessive drinking is fraught with many dangers, including death. In fact, it appears that throughout history there has been a direct correlation between the availability of alcohol and the increase in deaths in societies.
Even though the city has undergone a vast expansion, a plethora of problems have come with that.
The Great Exhibition of 1851 was a huge and successful display of the fantastic abundance of the British Empire's industrial age, which gave rise to a plethora of goods from around the world.
It's true that most of those cometing the United States in the past few decades have come from places a far ways away, such as (the) Caribbean or Latin America, but they've mostly been people fleeing oppressive political regimes.
The physician's bible, "Semiology of the Human Body", has a glut of information on the heart and no discussion at all on the brain.
There's a plethora of unexplored passageways down here.
The most important reason for accepting the new term is that it avoids a plethora of alternative words, such as 'sea' or 'lake', which do not share the same meaning.
The online encyclopedia Wikipedia has a plethora of information on nearly every subject.
The newest exhibit in the museum is a plethora of information about the history of computers.
They say it's a feature of the human brain that it tends to remember negative experiences more than positive ones, leading to a plethora of unhappy people in the world.
The invention of writing and the discovery of stars were among the most important events in human history. In preliterate societies, important knowledge is transferred orally.
Although a plethora of studies have already been published, the debate over exactly what kind of mental models people use in this task is far from settled.
The twentieth century has seen a plethora of African writers, such as Wole Soyinka and Chinua Achebe, the latter of whom wrote "Things Fall Apart", one of the most famous works of African literature in English.
He had a plethora of suggestion, comments, and ideas to contribute.
There's a plethora of information on Wikipedia.
Now your brain is actively engaged and you begin to enjoy the session. The words start to flow and you can see words relating to each other; for example, abundance, plethora and superabundance have an elaborate network of shared meanings.
Around 300 to 500 musical compositions were written during the lifetime of Joseph Haydn alone, and this is before you include songs. This was a true 'Golden Age' of music.
A plethora of information that would never be used again clutter your brain.
The report gave a plethora of examples of racial discrimination within the police force.
There is a plethora of new information that has to be learned and understood.
There is a plethora of legislation protecting employees and employers has to comply with a lot of rules.
The plethora of religions is one factor in the rise of fundamentalism.
The ancient Sumerians founded the city of Baghdad, which later became the capital of the Abbasid Empire.
The Italian's achievement is all the more remarkable when we consider that for most of the fifteenth century there was a Latin literary ‘plethora' in Italy, with both Latin and vernacular literature enjoying a lively production and
A mere six years after the album's original release, it was re-released with a plethora of bonus tracks.
Current investigators have raised the possibility that in a plethora of instances, human domestication of plant life preceded animal domestication.
A severe drought hit Southern Africa in 2001, resulting in a shortage of food and other types of plants.
There's been a plethora of research attempting to link violent behavior with brain chemistry.
The latest research has unearthed a plethora of information about the lifestyle of primitive humans.
Exacerbating the problem was the recent plethora of technology appraisal companies.
There is a plethora of evidence for the decline of the greatest civilization the world has even known.
The book begins with a veritable plethora of lists: classic movies, alien abductees, infamous assassinations, Oscar-winners, cities destroyed in natural disasters, NHL teams, brands of bubble gum,
The government says it has a plethora of policies to deal with the problem.
The potential return of the Russian aristocracy to power was a problem for some, but for most it was the plethora of Romanov side-stories that were the most exciting aspect of Nicholas' abdication.
A potential problem for the system is that although people can vote at 18, they cannot hold office until they reach 21, which means for at least five years the electorate's leaders are older than them.
Alternatively, it may be a direct result of the disease killing off vast quantities of worms, which are then no longer around to help digest food, and thus causing a plethora of undigested food to remain in the intestines.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'regrettably'.
The bustling games room had a plethora of high-tech gadgets, flashing lights and digitized sounds.
The last decade has seen a medical marijuana movement that has grown from a few pot-smoking rebels into a plethora of activists fighting for their right to medicate.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unification'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'jurisdiction.'
The abundance of food in the market was almost a direct result of the previous year's harvest, which had been a bountiful one.
Alfred Hitchcock's filmmaking career began at the very dawn of cinema's invention and lasted right up to the present day, with him making movies right up until his death in 1980.
In addition, they must take a plethora of courses in such subjects as the English language or world geography.
In the early 18th century, increased agricultural productivity reduced the amount of labour needed, creating an abundance of cheap labour.
Represented by many different factions and ideas, there was a plethora of political groups in this period.
The multitude of birds that reside in the region are a sight for sore eyes in a country plagued with a shortage of wildlife.
The biggest player in the postindustrial economy, though, is the computer industry. It has a plethora of jobs, but they rely on "people skills" more than computer skills.
English has a plethora of expressions based on the word ‘string'.
The project's existence came to the attention of scholars and theologians who were horrified by the idea of a Plethoryx Library, seeing it as a plethora of potential problems.
The last fifteen years has seen a veritable plethora of new remedies, from the infamous disease-causing cone snail to numerous fungi with interesting affects on the nervous system.
The four-minute mile had been seen as aphysical barrier, a plethora of theories had grown up around it, and doctors even claimed that it couldn't be broken.
English is a language with a plethora of synonyms.
"The book under review here is a good example of a plethora of books that have come out recently on the Etruscans," she said, looking searchingly at the student.
The nation has a plethora of talent in the music field.
A real pet peeve of Dolan's is the plethora of American sayings, such as "hold up," which are used to replace perfectly good words--in this case, 'rob.
Waterhouse has a plethora of information about German naval operations in the region.
The New York school's depiction of urban life was in part a reaction against the dominance of American painting of rural life. It concentrated on images of tenement life and street life, painting the myriad details of daily existence.
The free market system has proved that it can be more efficient than any government planning agency, but it creates a plethora of problems that need to be solved.
Another criticism is that psychoanalysis is not useful in modern society, because it ignores the plethora of other factors that influence behavior.
It was a veritable cornucopia of delights, ranging from the sublime to the ridiculous.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "fraction".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'phenomenon'.
The late-romantic movement is often referred to as a 'plethora' of musical talent.
