

#eliminate

I think it would have been better if the development of weapons that could eliminate large numbers of people in a short amount of time had taken longer.
The money that had been raised would be used to support the families of the men who were taken off the mission list, and also to eliminate any possible adverse publicity.
The annual cost of health care in the U.S. would be significantly reduced if we could eliminate the problems caused by poor diet.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'levitation'.
However, hunters would also eliminate animals that they did not want to see overabundant
The only way he saw to eliminate the threat was to assassinate the king of France.
It is often assumed that big governemnt programs protect the poor and unfortunate, but in reality they are usually designed to eliminate or neutralize any serious competition to the status quo.
The rebels eliminated all but a few men who managed to hide.
The government's plan will create a huge amount of red tape for private businesses, which will effectively eliminate most small businesses.
The official policy of the United States during the Second Red Scare was to eliminate potential threats rather than attempt to bring them to trial.
Nevertheless, the Nazis' ultimate goal was to eliminate Jews and other non-Aryans from the face of the Earth.
The American public is traditionally wary of "eliminating" a leader.
The two factors were the Nazis' desire to eliminate intellectual, Jews, and other 'inferior' people from their "master race," and the fact that there was no room for anyone who could not contribute to the war effort.
The king aimed to eliminate all the potential rivals for power under his authority in the kingdom.
"There is an ongoing and intensive program that aims to eliminate malaria."
The new police force was able to make great strides in eliminating crime in this area of the city.
The first independent Arab Iraqi government after the invasion was ruled by Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr, who resigned in 1968 and was replaced by another radical left-wing regime led by General Ahmad Hasan al-Bakr.
The importance of this theory is that it helped eliminate the concept of race, which was crucial in the development of the idea of "humanity" or humanity as a single entity rather than a collection of races.
As a result of years of struggle, workers had been forced to accept that strikes and slow downs did not eliminate the system that was making them all miserable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'military'.
The development of new communication technologies is eliminating the need for many middlemen (such as agents, lawyers, and businessmen), whose roles are increasingly redundant.
The notion of eliminating ageing seems utterly unrealistic to some observers, while others believe it will come about gradually through a series of advances in human lifespan.
The discovery of effective antibiotics completely eliminated contagious diseases as a major threat to human life
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "labor".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fossil'.
Chief Joseph however counseled patience, arguing that war would only lead to more deaths, which would no doubt include Native Americans as well as whites, as had happened during the removal of the Seminoles in the Seminole War of 1835.
As the Nazis were defeated, the governments of France, Britain and the US wanted to eliminate the danger of communism spreading.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "exist".
Sadly, after the revolution, several of the investigators who had helped the Russian government eliminate the radicals were themselves executed by the Soviets.
One of the reasons for the spread of the new religion was its strictly codified rules and regulations that effectively eliminated the vagaries of medieval law.
It was found that anger, an emotion that most people try to eliminate from their lives, can actually be beneficial.
Professor: But sometimes you find that the text is not a continuous block of text but separated into groups, like questions and answers. In this case, we are still in the section called "Questions"
Eliminating one of the sciences would allow for an increase in funding for the other two.
However the media have no need to eliminate politicians altogether because these politicians often make sensational news even without the help of reporters
However, the right to free speech also has an implicit obligation to take responsibility for the consequences of that speech.
But in the Spanish-American War of 1898 the American navy dominated. As a result, America was able to seize and annex the islands.
The first world war was a decisive factor in eliminating an entire generation of young men, which left a shortage of marriageable men and resulted in an increase in the number of children out of wedlock;
The work of the factory inspectors helped eliminate many of the worst aspects of child labour.
"The cold may keep their bodies in the morgue, but it can't eliminate their dreams."
In areas where the bathhouses were shut down and pornographic materials were eliminated, the crime rates actually increased.
As he was a middle-aged man, he had the wisdom to know that he couldn't eliminate the feuding overnight.
It is important to eliminate sources of danger both within and without the republic.
The Nazis wished to eliminate all "inferior" elements among the population: the mentally retarded, the physically disabled, the mentally ill, and so on.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'disadvantage'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fiery'.
However, the process will eliminate many hereditary diseases, which are often less visible in the short term.
Fascists often believed that their governments were superior to all other forms and natural destiny to eventually eliminate all other governments in the world.
It is even believed that the polio vaccine, which eliminated poliomyelitis from most first-world countries by the 1980s, may have contributed to the rise in type 2 diabetes through its association with the rise of obesity.
A frequent criticism of Victorian attitudes is that their morality and values were excessively repressive, especially towards women.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'qualities'.
Professor: Actually, I find it easier to list the people with bad qualities rather than the good ones.
The Spanish government has spoken out against the new vaccine, arguing that it eliminates too many of the symptoms, and gives patients a sense of security that may prove fatal in an epidemic.
A new strain of malaria is being developed which eliminates the symptoms while retaining the ability to block malaria infection.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "suppression".
The diet she had been placed on had helped her eliminate the symptoms of arthritis.
Kant believed a war could not be justified if it could be avoided, and that it could be avoided if all countries in the world came to a peaceful agreement and bound themselves to abide by it.
The rioters followed the strike leaders, whose goal had always been to eliminate the use of company scrip, not merely to gain a pay raise.
However. the main reason for the act's failure to eliminate terrorism was that governments were unwilling to give up such methods.
The Nazis also wanted to eliminate all the people who couldn't contribute to society, such as Jews, disabled, and old people.
King Louis the Fourteenth of France had thousands of nobles eliminated who opposed his policies.
He told them that the only way to eliminate public resentment towards high gasoline prices was to reduce income taxes.
Between the 1880s and the 1910s, the U.S. government passed laws to eliminate the native cultures of the Native Americans.
After the Boer War, British governments were committed to eliminating the rival colonial power.
The purpose of fascism is to eliminate all individuality and differences between people.
Diseases that threaten a population's existence for any reason may drive that population to extinction; if continued, this can eventually lead to the elimination of that population from its natural habitat.
The theory of intelligent design would eliminate the element of chance and provide an explanation for the complex machinery that sustains life.
After the battle of Hastings in 1066, Norman dominance was largely established and they went on to eliminate most Anglo-Saxon nobility by the time William died in 1087.
The problem with the design of the bridge was soon detected and plans were made to eliminate any weaknesses that it might have.
The Third Reich eliminated illiteracy, filled the schools, and provided health care for all the children.
Most importantly, they will meet the leaders and work to eliminate those who oppose the formation of the new government.
The soldiers started eliminating you and your friends from the competition.
Professor: The much more dramatic version is that humans have been on the planet for 60,000 years, in which case the entire human race could be in danger of being eliminated due to pollution and the greenhouse effect.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "pension".
became more skilled.
Professor:The most important thing to remember is to maintain the same pace throughout the entire race.
When the Central Powers suffered major defeats at the battles of Marne and Ypres, it became apparent that they could not eliminate the Allies' superiority on the seas.
Never having had any children himself, the king sent his nephew to a far-off land to eliminate him as a possible rival for the throne.
The Fascists led by Mussolini wanted to eliminate everything they believed to be anti-fascist.
The notion that machines might eliminate human labor and eliminate jobs has a long history
However, what if medicine progresses to the point where every disease can be
U.S. forces tried to eliminate the Vietcong's food, supplies and support by flooding the country with American troops.
The use of the atomic bomb in World War II was an attempt by the major powers involved in the war to eliminate their opponents and, when other major powers became involved, to eliminate them as well.
The purpose of the laws was to eliminate the drinking places where the working class congregated.
The Nazis wanted to eliminate from public life anyone who opposed their ideas.
Nations may also be considered dictatorships if they are run by a single individual, since one person eliminating all of the competition can, for all intents and purposes, rule by himself.
Eventually, managers eliminated the factory's floor workers' department altogether.
The government has not yet decided whether it will eliminate the tax break or increase it.
Your study of the Norman language will enable you to eliminate the ambiguity that is often a feature of the modern English legal system.
Only a few people of the many who have gone missing in the Bermuda Triangle have managed to eliminate themselves under rather unusual circumstances.
The victory of the working class over the bourgeoisie will eliminate hunger, poverty, and exploitation.
After the Civil War in the United States, some authors used vernacular dialects as a way to eliminate racial barriers.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'distinction'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modernize'.
The wholesale elimination of mosquitoes has the potential to improve everyone's quality of life and lower health care costs.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'taboo'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'penalize'. Professor:
However, the guillotine was declared a 1791 and the death penalty itself was only temporarily eliminated in the aftermath of the Robespierre riots after which it returned in the form of hanging, and later the firing squad.
The government had to eliminate the pirates so that safe trade routes could be established along the coast.
Religion was eliminated from the school as the Victorian values became more influential.
He said that if an "unpleasant fate" should eliminate him, then Goring should take over as Head of State.
Carter hoped to eliminate all the risks of his plan by using a poison.
Mitterrand actually believed the French Communist Party could be eliminated altogether.
The National Socialist Party was determined to eliminate Communists from German life.


#entail

Professor: The main problem is the fact that the three issues involved – the end of apartheid, majority rule and the integration of the army – entailed an undesirable amount of power to be given to black South Africans.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'latitude'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "curious".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "flourished".
The new regulations that the council wants to pass would entail a lot more red tape.
The only implication that I personally find at all troubling is that several of the government's policies seem to be based on this decision.
The catastrophe would have involved earthquakes and tidal waves, but these would have b
"This means war" is a headline in the newspaper about the assassination of the Austrian archduke. This event entails WWI.
This was the period when the royal prerogative or kingship was established in England and Royal absolutism was entailed in Europe.
These factors would have taken such a toll on the population that two consequences would have immediately entailed: the extinction of the small band and the occupation by some other group.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unanimity'.
However, it entails the risk that important discoveries won't be indexed or recorded properly.
"Living in the Stone Age entailed a lot of problems we don't have to deal with today," he said.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elaborate'.
The Berlin Airlift of 1948 gave rise to the Organisation of African Unity, or O.A.U, which thereafter entailed annual meetings of African leaders.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideological'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "materialist".
Professor: The theory that tax cuts for the rich entail higher deficits, therefore investment in public goods such as education and health care are cut, leading to faster accumulation of wealth in the hands of the rich is called the "Deficit Twister"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'thereafter'.
A theory that contradicts existing theories and beliefs must necessarily entail changing ideas about current science.
The risks of the surgery entail large general anesthesia.
With the rise of technology, automation and mass production, it only entails that more jobs be done by machines.
Unfortunately, the agent said, signing such a paper would entail keeping quiet about the circumstances surrounding the accident.
The government's original controversial suggestion entails the creation of a database containing patient records.
The problems caused by mass migration were so severe that they would entail changes in the medieval world.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'seem'.
However, the Crusades were only one of many factors that could have entailed a "clash of civilizations".
The newer antipsychotic drugs work so effectively to alleviate symptoms that many experts believe they entail a serious risk of patients becoming letha
It was not something that could be achieved in my lifetime or even my children's, but it could be a possibility for my grandchildren. It would entail changing people's attitudes as well as the infrastructure of the government.
While the hens lay the eggs and roosters cheer them on with their crowing, it is the female chicks that wind up making food to bring home to their brothers and sisters.
The difference between England and France in this regard was that laws were passed in England making the monarchy constitutional.
The common law of England is the legal system that has developed over centuries from decisions by judges.
Professor: It is important to remember that the concept of genetic diseases being hereditary was completely new, and nobody had any idea how many diseases were 'likely' to be genetic.
It doesn't necessarily entail large-scale government intervention, but the idea is that those who are at risk should be helped to achieve their full potential.
Monarchs such as Louis XVI entailed serious problems to their countries.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'agriculture'.
The invention of agriculture is considered to be the most revolutionary development in human history.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'undeniable'.
First, all of the major powers in Europe had to support the war, which with the outbreak of war was almost assured.
Many evolutionary changes, such as the decline in size of predatory animals on prey after the extinction of their prey, entail a risk of which individuals can only weakly grasp the consequences.
In contrast, World War I was a much better planned venture and the victors had clear goals as to what they wanted.
He talks about the main moral tenets of Buddhism and how they entail that we should all work against our selfish instincts to do harm, and Buddhists should actively try to bring peace and happiness to the world.
However, other global institutions will be inadequate to deal with the problems that are likely to entail.
The reasons for imprisonment in the ancient Roman Empire are unclear, but it probably did not entail a trial.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'attain'.
The collapse of the Soviet Bloc in Eastern Europe involved a large-scale restructuring which necessarily entailed extensive social and financial costs.
Monarchs were perhaps also of the opinion that to sign would entail too great a sacrifice, although it seems unlikely that such a vast cost would truly have been required.
Obligatory military service entails several consequences, including a heavy economic blow to a country.
In science, a theory entails the understanding of a set of observations.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "illusion".
The British Empire ultimately entailed a large financial burden that may have contributed to its slow decline.
The United States' isolation at the time made developing an ambitious foreign policy not worth the potential entanglements.
They were known as the ‘stupid census', as filling it in usually entails answering a series of tricky questions.
The fall of the Berlin wall in 1989 and subsequent collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe two years later entailed a vast change in the world's political system.
There was always a slight risk that the surgery wouldn't work, and a greater risk that she wouldn't survive the anesthetic, which in those days entailed risks of suffocation and embolisms.
Feudalism entailed a hierarchy of mutual responsibilities between nobles and peasants.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intelligentsia'.
It was irrelevant whether the slave was a fellow African or an African-American, since being black entails the same "natural slave" mentality in Jefferson's mind.
Fascism entails a government that is essentially funded and supported by big business.
The restructuring of the army would entail a great expense, and a lot of resistance from powerful groups that would have to be dealt with.
The same constitutional laws that entail the rights and privileges of the subjects also entail the duties and responsibilities towards the state.
A possible consequence of a rise in the number of older people is an increase in the amount of money spent on medical care. This may entail a concomitant decrease in spending on education, or could entail other social consequences if not addressed.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'nationalism'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "resulting".
The Second World War entails much more than just the Holocaust, Hitler and the Nazis.
The theory of relativity, on the other hand, entails that time is dependent on speed and position.
Unexpectedly, this almost-cosy arrangement entails a great deal of expense.
Peacekeeping and the creation of a stable society in the former war zone have involved massive military and financial commitment, which has in part entailed increasing the size of the military.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "slaughter".
The basic problem with such a proposal would entail ignoring the fact that the new directives are consistently and grossly disregarding the collective opinion of more senior staff.
Both the Jacobites and William of Orange claimed the English throne, but only William's invasion involved no entailments or complex feudal problems.
A computer that can play chess requires rules and instructions to be written entirely in symbolic logic, which entails creating a huge number of rules but enables the computer to evaluate many more possible moves in a given time than is possible using only Weiner's algorithm.
The invasion of Iraq was entailed huge military expenses and loss of life for U.S soldiers.
Lake Van was the center of ancient Armenian civilization, and when it comes to certain types of fish, such as trout, the historical records show that they have been farmed here for centuries longer than farming them has been practiced in Europe
However, the set functions are primitive and somewhat random; they do not permit a great deal of logical entailment.
The possibility that genetically engineered humans can think and feel on the same level as naturally evolved humans entails a major rethinking of our relationship with technology.
The Yalta Conference of 1945, although it entailed some compromises by the Allies, particularly concerning Poland's internal affairs, showed that the division of Europe was to be a long-term solution.
The connections between the French and the Indians were such that they could not have been broken without entailing war with the Iroquois and, as a consequence, the disruption of English settlements.
The modern banking system entails that the bank not only transfers money from one client to another but actually creates money when it approves a loan.
It's unbelievable that the newspapers would print something that entails ignoring the moral and legal issues of having such power over human life.
The changes that were finally made in order to pass the Food and Drug Act of 1906 were very minor, but they nonetheless entailed a slight admission by the federal government that it could not always pursue a policy of laissez-faire.
"When the king sees that we're ready to fight, he'll realize that the war would entail heavy losses for his kingdom as well and put an end to it."
One of the reasons why many in the medical profession believed abortion was wrong was that it entailed the taking of a human life.
The events of the French Revolution entailed a
The possibility that the new fertilizer would cause damaging environmental changes that might even entail the extinction of life on earth wasn't considered.
The moment one takes the implications of the theory seriously, a whole new vista of ideas opens up.
"Could entail unforeseen and undesirable consequences."
Finding the formula for maximizing the probability of the desired output entails writing down a system of linear inequalities.
Whales and dolphins entailed a major rethinking of many basic assumptions in biology, not to mention the task of fitting them into the family tree of mammals.
The official figures on unemployment were often criticised for failing to take into account the large number of women who were classified as home helps, the number of whom had increased substantially in the previous few years.
Mr. Gladstone did not mean to entrust me with the sole initiative of getting you out of England, but he will undoubtedly agree that this was the best way ofnotifying you of the danger...
From this point onwards, the European Union would have to be run by a bureaucracy which in essence would take control of the member states.
The starting of the war was only the first of many events that would entail, leading to consequences that nobody could have forseeen.
Professor:The American system of checks and balances entails a complicated set of procedures that ensure the three branches of government can counterbalance each other's power,
Egalitarian societies exist in a delicate balance, and the implication is that only a few factors can bring this harmony into chaos.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reinvent".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "elite".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "different".
The Common Agricultural Policy, which entails an awful lot of money, has had a tremendous impact on the way agriculture is carried out in the European Union.
But they don't necessarily entail that miners were forced to work an excessive number of hours.
Year 2018, November
The term "theory of relativity" entails that time and space can slow down or speed up.


#emphasise

The impact of urban pollution on health was first emphasised by the British Medical Association in the 1950s.
At the same time, it also exaggerated the importance of the individual, over that of the society as a whole, and thus can be said to have contributed to the development of western individualism.
It doesn't matter what values the Sowing Circle emphasised. They were a bunch of peace-loving idiots who got caught up in the Leveller movement and paid the price.
Marxism emphasizes the role of class in defining people's relationship to one another and to society.
To place too much emphasis on the legislative branch is to ignore the fact that, even if it is true that democracies do not war with one another, the existence of a democracy has not prevented internal strife and civil wars.
The book also emphasises that globalization is a continuous process.
Carlo Goldoni used to be considered a minor playwright but his comedies, with their emphasis on domestic problems and witty banter, have now gained a wider appreciation.
It is easier to emphasise the differences than the similarities of various religions because in general faith traditions tend to disagree with each other.
Who should I emphasise this point to? You, your classmates or other professors?
However, the most important aspect of printing was that it enabled ideas to spread much more quickly and easily, and allowed the general public to emphasize their thoughts.
My point is that religion can't be blamed for most of the evil in the world, if any. It may be responsible for some of the war and strife throughout history, but even that can't be emphasized enough.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'focusing'.
The spread of Christianity emphasised that lesson.
It is important to emphasize the importance of simplicity in models, particularly in mathematical models such as these.
Instead, they believed that a relatively new "revolution in human affairs" had taken place, possibly around 50,000 years ago. This was when humans developed complex language, and started to think about abstract matters such as spirituality and logic.
The main theme to emphasize is that genetically modern humans originated in Africa.
The Paleocene is sometimes called the "age of the whales", as it was then that the gigantic cetaceans developed.
The singer Bob Marley became a Rastafarian and emphasized the idea that being black was a good thing.
The French painters were more interested in creating work that emphasized individual expression.
Professor: The last of these schools of thought, the sociological school of thought, places emphasis on the role of society and culture in the formation of language.
He felt no desire to emphasise his differences from the men he had been fighting.
The main reason why people have not emphasized the importance of John Adams's contributions as much as his spouse is that she was a woman.
The reason why string theory and its alternatives can be represented as different branches of the same formal object is that they can all be translated into a common language which allows for emphasizing their striking formal similarities.
The amount of oil in an economy can be over-emphasized, however.
A major theme of my lecture was the emphasis on revolution rather than evolution in the late 18th-century
However, the following day, his sister, White House Press Secretary Saraah learned about it through the means of a reporter who emphasized how important the story was and requested a one-on-one interview.
However, the main goal of the Enlightenment was to emphasize the balance between the ‘mind' and the experience of life over mere intellectualizing.
Galileo's observations with his telescope strongly emphasised the beliefs that the sun was much larger than the earth and that the moon had mountains and other wonders.
While the third Reich is often used as an example of modern fascism, most historians have begun to emphasise its differences from other 20th-century dictatorships.
The Nazis, however, particularly emphasised young people in their efforts to indoctrinate them.
It's easy to see everything in your life as a battle, and while this is sometimes the case - for example if you're fighting a fatal disease - it isn't always true.
In the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries in Britain, changes in the legal and social status of women were minimal.
The best way to help women to cope with their oppression is to emphasise the differences between males and females.
Firstly, the historian has to try to stick closer to the facts, and not exaggerate or make things up.
Feminists can also be distinguished according to their emphasis, such as difference feminists, who believe that there are important differences between men and women, or equality feminists who believe that men and women are equal but still have identifiable differences.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word"furthermore".
Look at the following words. Underline each word that is a synonym of "emphasize"
The Church has traditionally emphasised the role of the family in society.
Professor: In the 19th century, it was believed that life in all its forms had gradually evolved from microbes.
The idea that humans were subject to the same natural laws as other animals had great appeal during the 19th century. It emphasized the idea of equality and even encouraged people to question the institution of the church.
I'd emphasize that what they've found is a very small piece of evidence that have to be put into its righ
In the late 15th century, there was a shift in the artistic style in Northern Europe from a standard of realism to a new emphasis on emotional expressionism.
The most obvious explanation seems to be that the game has nothing to do with the school and is just a computer-generated random phrase.
The case for strong Anglo-German tensions is further emphasised by the fact that the ruling elites in both countries held each other in dislike and suspicion.
He's not convinced that the authorities should emphasise Islamic education in state schools.
With the benefit of historical hindsight, it is very easy to emphasise the role of the aristocracy in early modern society.
For economists like John Maynard Keynes, the emphasis was on stimulating growth.
The article states that although it is claimed by some that the trial process of the Nazis has emphasized their guilt rather than clarifying historical truth, the evidence presented has largely supported the allegations of the defense.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "generally".
Instead of obeying the law of supply and demand, prices increased in areas where there was a destruction of crops. This is because governments were slow to act, and businessmen took the opportunity to raise prices, thus emphasizing their profits.
On the other hand, there is value in emphasizing the need for cooperation and compromise in order to ensure the survival of our species.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'varying'.
The American way of life, had always to some degree been based on the freedom of the individual as opposed to the state.
The American Civil War is also known as the War Between States or The War of Northern Aggression. It was a conflict that emphasized that the country had two different cultures and attitudes towards government.
He also emphasised the need for a popular army of citizens to defend the nation, in parallel to the standing professio
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'stimulate'.
The text of the Australian Constitution focuses more on the institutions set up to run the country, such as parliament and the High Court, rather than on individual rights.
Television is a medium of entertainment that tends to emphasize the negative aspects of life.
In the sixteenth century, explorers were eager to emphasize the dangers of travel.
During this time the government increasingly emphasized its role as the number one problem solver in society.
My teacher always used to stress the importance of grammar when giving feedback on essays.
For the materialists, the way to emphasize the theory was to write a book.
Anthropologists tend to emphasise the universality of human nature.
The word conservative in 'Conservative Party' emphasises the party's aspirations to preserve the traditions and established social hierarchy.
The king in his speech emphasized the need for quiet and order above all else.
This statement is the start of a strategy by the American President to emphasize his intention to solve these economic problems.
However, for the majority of my life, I've tried to live by the emphasis of one of my favourite poets.
The main point the director wants you to emphasize in the show is that too much emphasis is placed on violent films and video games by the media.
One way of learning to deal with risk is by emphasising practical work at the expense of theory.
The first step in the procedure is to emphasise to the patient how important it is that they follow the special diet.
The members of the left-wing parties tended to emphasise education and training for the masses.
When the Red Army took Berlin, it emphasised its role in the victory over fascism.
The most popular approach among historians used to be the traditional method, which focused on 'great men', such as kings and generals, and their 'great deeds', such as battles won and laws made.
Tubman emphasized personal contact and teamwork with slaves to Eliza and her sister, explaining why she wouldn't be able to return to the farm to get their things.
Regardless of their importance in the past, the religious beliefs of our time emphasize human brotherhood.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "advancement".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'intelligent'.
Gandhi emphasises the need for non-violent resistance, and asks that the British not retaliate if the Indians take such actions.
In answering your question, it is important to emphasize that the religious beliefs of the time heavily aided the spread of disease.
Gandhi is remembered as the man who freed India from the shackles of British colonialism through his philosophy of non-violence and emphasis on peaceful protest.
He said that ensuring a good environment was just as important for a child's development as the parents, if not more so.
"You should really emphasise the importance of women's rights in the Industrial period," Jane said.
In the 19th century, there was a huge emphasis on revolution to achieve less oppressive governments.
However, it is necessary to emphasize that although the nation-state was a relatively new invention, its role in the war was not.
They were also frequently known to alter events in ancient history, such as the rise of Alexander the Great, or the battle of Hastings, to make it seem as if their favoured candidate won in reality.
Many, but not all, of the groups campaigning for female suffrage also campaigned on issues such as poverty, war and education.
The connection between the two is often emphasised by feminist historians.
Although he was a good and patient teacher, Professor Peel is best known for the emphasis he placed on understanding the poetic form and language of Shakespeare's sonnets.
"As a general rule," he continued, "I always emphasise that the most important aspect of a crisis is never to panic."
The most obvious feature of the play, which the director kept emphasizing, is that it is funny.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "intricacies".
Also, the greatest emphasis in most schools is on literacy.
The importance of the Church in medieval society is often emphasised, but the Church was not powerful enough to stop the steady decline of the Roman Empire in the West.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "tendency".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'necessarily'.
It is vital that all workers in the health service be given equal status and pay, rather than allowing a few so called "experts" to emphasise their importance.
I'll just go through it again and emphasize some key points, then.
The most interesting part of the lecture was when she emphasised how important fresh water fish were to Mesolithic hunter-gatherer societies.
'Since the attacks, the police have been more willing to emphasize the importance of security over individual freedom', stated civil rights campaigner Benjamin Benson.
The main purpose of the lecture was to emphasize the importance of understanding history and how it affects the present.


#essentially

Louis XIV, essentially an absolute monarch, was able to enforce a large number of laws upon his people.
The three Gorges Dam is a hydroelectric dam built essentially for energy purposes
The essence of most religions is their belief in life after death.
The American writer Mark Twain essentially created the modern version of the English language that many people speak today.
Although the race was abandoned in 1939 because of the Second World War, it was re-established in 1947 and has been run every year since.
The round shape of the globe essentially implies that any trip through the southern half will be much more arduous than one through the northern half.
However, the key point is that these beings were essentially human because they had free will and rational thought.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "break".
The Cold War is essentially a period of tension and conflict between the Western powers of USA and its allies, and the Soviet Communist Party and its satellite states in Eastern Europe.
The Aztecs believed essentially in a cyclical world.
In essence, it is the process of putting things together and organizing them into categories.
The European Community's competition policies are essentially a way of ensuring that trade in basic commodities within its borders is fair to all its member states.
The key point was that while these institutions existed in theory, in practice the Federal government really hadn't extended its power into this area, so bank lobbyists were free to write banking laws that essentially legalized fraud.
Nonetheless, there's still a good deal of traffic between the two cities, which are after all essentially on the same island.
The Thirty Years' War was essentially a religious war fought over conflicting interpretations of the Christian faith.
Basically, he says that the data are incorrect.
The first humans were the same species as modern humans, and essentially looked the same; there weren't many differences between them genetically.
King Louis XVI was essentially a kind and timid man but he was faced with enormous problems that needed to be addressed.
Most linguists believe that all human languages are fundamentally similar although some have developed many complexities and, especially, idioms that make them appear different to the outsider.
Underneath all the architecture, roads and paths of various kinds were what is essentially a giant maze.
The 'freedom train' of the Underground Railroad was essentially a railroad line that ran under the ground.
The fall of the Soviet Union essentially marked the end of the Cold War.
Despite the fact that the Geniza documents were discovered so long ago, their study is still in essence a very modern one.
Christianity has essentially been divided into two main branches, Catholicism and Protestantism.
Essentially, the Hapsburg Empire had too many ethnic groups stretching over large distances.
Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels' "Manifesto of the Communist Party" essentially states that workers are inevitably going to rise up and overthrow the ruling class.
The Industrial Revolution was the most revolutionary event in European history; essentially half of the Europe had made a successful jump to an entirely new way of life.
The only way to control the outbreak was to quarantine the area. This action essentially created an oppressive police state in which a person couldn't freely leave their home for any reason.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "political".
The events of the O. J. Simpson trial suggested that racism was essentially over in the United States.
The essence of German doctrine at the time was its extreme nationalism.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "racialism".
The GATT is essentially a set of rules to govern international trade between nations
The answer to the disease is essentially evolutionary, not revolutionary.
The Thirty Years' War was essentially a religious struggle in which the control of religion within each state was at stake.
The British essentially maintained the same policies and outlook towards Native Americans as they did before 1776.
Essentially what they did do, though, was keep out foreign competition (such as Italians and Spaniards), whilst keeping in the English wool that the merchants exported.
The Medicis were a rich and powerful Italian family essentially ruling over the area now known as Tuscany.
Marxism essentially holds the belief that the working classes are destined to overthrow the ruling class.
The concerns expressed by the doubters in the group are essentially the same as yours.
Professor:The essence of the American dream is based on the values of liberty and equality which is what attracted millions to America in the first place.
The invention of the steam engine essentially created the first industrial society.
The British constitution now essentially means whatever the judges say it means.
The checkers player was essentially ahead by a third of a piece.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'spurious'.
In the 1988 US presidential election, George H. W. Bush said that Michael Dukakis would essentially give away the store to the Soviets if he is elected president.
The only essentially new things under the sun are the combinations we make from old elements.
Your boss calls you into her office.
The Bill of Rights is essentially a list of basic human rights that ensure that the government cannot take them away from its people.
Most of the art works displayed are essentially copies of paintings by famous artists.
Essentially all economists agree that free trade benefits all countries involved.
Essentially, the total elimination of poverty with a few exceptions is the ultimate goal of socialism.
The American approach to government is essentially democratic in nature.
The decision to send some U.S. troops to the Asian city of Srinagar in 2000 was essentially made without considering the potential consequences.
Conscription is essentially a form of slavery.
Nietzsche's style is essentially aphoristic: he expresses his ideas, and then exaggerates them, often to be reversed in the next statement.
The English civil wars were essentially a battle between King and Parliament for control of the state.
The Dreyfus affair was essentially a fight over whether France would remain a liberal democracy or fall under the sway of the rising phenomenon of anti-Semitic political parties.
Best way of learning vocabulary
An anthropologist is primarily concerned with human origins and what it means to be human, what is essential in the study of humanity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "recognition".
Classical liberalism essentially arose as a response to the atrocities of the absolutist monarchs of seventeenth-century Europe.
The Bill of Rights is essentially the first ten amendments to the US constitution.
Essentially, it was a war between Protestants and Catholics.
The communist governments of Eastern Europe were essentially totalitarian as they attempted to control not only people's professional lives, but also aspects of their private lives.
The Vietnamese Communist Party's success was essentially determined by its rigid hierarchy imposed in part through terror.
The fall of the Roman Empire essentially marked the end of ancient civilization.
Primarily the body's muscular and skeletal systems provide the organs and other parts of the body with protection and also function as 'hangers on' to keep them in the right place.
Although small amounts of fuel oil were burned in Japan and the United States in the 1890s, oil burning as a source of light continued to be used essentially for lighting until after World War I.
The Magna Carta...set out a series of rights and privileges, some of which are still part of the law of the land today.
While life in the jungle was dangerous and hard, it essentially remained life.
It was essentially a last-ditch attempt to control the increasingly left-wing politics of the nation.
Saddam Hussein was essentially a power-hungry would-be dictator, but even many of his enemies recognized that he was an intelligent person.
His main job as Chief of the Defense Staff was to essentially back up the British Army, although in certain circumstances he could command it outright.
The Cold War was essentially a state of diplomatic and military tension between the US and its allies in the West and the USSR and its allies in the East.
Essentially, the officers of the German army at the beginning of
The purpose of the Council of Vienna was essentially to restore Europe to its pre-Napoleonic state.
The scientific management movement essentially sought to break down every job that a person did into individual parts and then have another person specialize in each part, with the goal of increasing efficiency.
In 1998 there were reports of a substance that would keep hamburgers fresh and edible for up to a year without refrigeration; the implication is that we can now get our meat from slaughterhouses that are no longer indoors, at least in this
Essentially the new information done and interpreted by technology such as the computer has caused people to become more introverted and prefer isolation.
Traditionally the Thirty Years' War has been seen as a religious conflict between Protestants and Catholics but this interpretation is flawed, essentially because religion was not the only cause of the war.
The death penalty essentially was re-established towards the end of WW2 when Japanese soldiers were executed for war crimes.
Unlike gasoline, essentially all of the energy in ethanol is available for use as
The essentially middle-class nature of the army, and its role in protecting private property, meant that the military tended to side with the upper classes .
Feathers are essentially primitive Extensions of the skin
The Hansa were essentially a league of port towns rather than a single country.
In essence, the Church teaches us that we cannot be certain of our salvation and that we must follow the rules and regulations of the Church in order to be saved.
The Vietnam War was essentially a war of independence fought by the South Vietnamese against domination by the North.
Atheists essentially argue that a supernatural force doesn't exist.
Mikhail Gorbachev's Glasnost (Openness) and Perestroika (Restructuring) policies were essentially attempts to modernize a system that was staggering under its own bureaucratic weight.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "representatives".
The effects of the war on civilians were essentially a consequence of state breakdown, which produced areas of anarchy ruled only by force.
The concept of the 'nobility' is essentially a Medieval invention and most of its values are centered on chivalry.
With the rise of party politics in the seventeenth century, many Catholics essentially found themselves supporting a foreign power, ie.
The relationship between government and religion has essentially been the same throughout history.
The essential problem with the "ancient texts" defense, is that it just doesn't provide any solid answers.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "when".
The United Kingdom is essentially divided into four different countries: England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The National Socialist Party, or Nazis, essentially believed that the German people needed to restore their race to its former greatness, and that this required purging the nation of degenerate elements.
Professor: Meanwhile, in 1571 the German Catholic Church's assembly of bishops and princes, the Kursaal, officially declared that Jews had no choice but to accept the Council of Trent's rules for them.


#exacerbate

However, an atmosphere of crisis was created that made governments more oppressive and less supportive of reform.
Their use of the computer system can sometimes exacerbate their problems.
Yet another drawback of this approach is that it tends to exacerbate the problem of overpopulation.
The peasants' misery was exacerbated by the increasing taxes they had to pay to their noble rulers.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'utopian'.
In medieval England the feudal system exacerbated the need for soldiers.
Whatever the reason, the decline in railroad travel during this period exacerbated the effects of the Great Depression.
In that context they are likely to play up incidents that will exacerbate the differences.
Many economists believed that by deflating the currency and giving businesses tax incentives, the economy would recover from the Great Depression.
The ongoing struggle between the Catholics and Protestants didn't exacerbate until the death of Elizabeth I.
The "William" Shakespeare love poems are so tame that they only serve to exacerbate the author's reputation as a hopeless romantic rather than explain it.
It will exacerbate racial tensions and ultimately lead to more violence.
The tensions between the Russian Orthodox Church and the Royal family had exacerbated early on after the Time of Troubles.
The anger in the Middle East caused by the Palestinian refugee problem only exacerbated after the creation of Israel in 1947.
The destruction of the Native Americans' way of life only exacerbated their hatred of white settlers.
The hunger crisis was made much worse by the physical environment of the region, which exacerbated many of problems.
Conflict of some kind was inevitable in Yugoslavia after the Second World War, but by hastening the breakup of Yugoslavia along ethnic lines and then not increasing autonomy there for the resulting nations, the West exacerbated the situation.
As the three cities struggled to rebuild their economies, they began to specialise somewhat, with Rue for example becoming a centre for shipbuilding and fishing, Bandati growing into a centre of research and innovation and Castus becoming known for its mineral exploitation
The situation in the former Yugoslavia was not helped by the fact that the leaders of the former republics -- specifically Slovenia and Croatia -- were eager to see it exacerbated.
The feeling of uncertainty caused by the financial crisis worsened the economic downturn.
The world's climate has not warmed up noticeably since 1998, leading sceptics to argue that any future global warming will be slow and we will have plenty of time to adjust, whereas scientists maintain that the lack of warming is only a temporary pause and
The extreme nationalism of the 19th century exacerbated the long-running dispute between Catholics and Protestants in Ireland.
Sadly, the anti-immigrant feelings, which were already high before the attacks, have only been exacerbated by them.
Their cultures, quite useful in ordinary circumstances, were totally inadequate in this crisis, and served only to exacerbate the problem.
But violence in the inner cities would continue to exacerbate racial tensions.
The panic ensured that the racial tensions already prevalent in America became even more exacerbated.
The continued production of ozone-destroying gases could exacerbate this problem and lead to increased skin cancer incidents.
The ongoing violence in the Middle East is exacerbating the effects of the ecological crisis facing that region.
The fact that people in the region were becoming increasingly impoverished and hungry only exacerbated the situation.
The Civil Rights movement of the 1960s ... racial tensions that had been exacerbated by decades of social inequalities.
The conflict between Catholics and Protestants escalated into a war that exacerbated the struggle between Catholics and Protestants throughout the rest of the century.
As the world's climate grew colder, the problem of where to graze animals in the winter became increasingly problematic.
It was decided that the only way to avoid a potentially very embarrassing situation would be to greatly increase security.
The war of terror with Iraq has worsened America's image in the Middle East and has exacerbated anti-western sentiment.
The poverty we see in parts of the world today exacerbates the problem of overpopulation.
The First World War arguably exacerbated nationalism in Europe.
The oil crisis clearly exacerbated the economic recession.
This course is extremely popular and favorable with our students.
The most obvious effect of the 1929 stock market crash was that many banks started to fail. This disaster made the economic depression exponentially worse and harder to fix because now it wasn't just businesses but nations that were going bankrupt.
The worst inflation to affect the United States occurred in the latter half of the 1970s and was exacerbated by a global energy crisis.
From the 1880s onwards, the problems of poverty and lack of schools were increasingly exacerbated by a series of droughts.
The prisoner's dilemma has been claimed to explain why the two classes have such animosity toward each other, and why this tends to exacerbate social problems.
The global financial crisis has caused many instability in the international currency markets and the exacerbation of America's economy.
The struggle only exacerbated tensions between the two religious groups.
The First World War was caused by a combination of interlocking alliances, the military arms race, and a string of international crises that served to exacerbate the tensions that had built up within this framework.
The politics of the English Civil War is still an object of great controversy among historians and experts, and its causes continue to be a matter of historical debate.
The energy crisis was a major contributing factor in the recession, which exacerbated the unemployment rate.
The conflict between the United States and Iraq led to a harsher regime for the people of Iraq, which merely exacerbated the problem of global terrorism
The withdrawal of the front line troops, when they were needed most in defending the gains of the last two years, exacerbated the situation in the Arras sector.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "irony"
The policies of the Thatcher government exacerbated class division, as some of her policies favored businesses and others that favored the people.
The terrorists' attacks are in fact in response to the way the army has, with its actions, already exacerbated the situation...
"We must make a wholehearted commitment to addressing the issue of poverty" - the idea that extreme poverty can sometimes exacerbate the problem of disease.
The collapse of the USSR exacerbated ethnic problems in many areas.
This was of course an indication that the children's problems were very real and very exacerbated by their environment.
His violent behavior towards his classmates in junior high had exacerbated the situation, and he had been suspended for three days.
The First World War was responsible for the exacerbation of many of the psychological scars that veterans carried with them.
Unemployment was already a serious problem before the Wall Street Crash, and its effects only exacerbated the situation causing increased poverty and social unrest.
The problem of poverty has been exacerbated by the introduction of a new gambling machine called the Spinning Jenny which has resulted in many people becoming addicted to it.
The police action in Belfast worsened the tension between the Catholics and Protestants.
The war of 1914 intensified and exacerbated nationalism all over Europe.
It was a distinction without a difference, since the new type of factory work intensified the problem of monotony that had plagued manufacturing jobs since their inception.
The ongoing war of Finland against the USSR during the winter of 1939-40 only exacerbated the tensions between the two governments, not resulting in open conflict but an increased supply of support for Finnish discontent.
It is not clear whether the statue was erected in order to honor the king or to exacerbate his monarchic rule.
Many of the problems of implementing these changes continue to exacerbate regional differences between the two kingdoms
The assassination of Serbian Nationalist, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, was a direct cause of World War I.
Many developing countries have to deal with plunging birthrates. These countries need more young people to support the economy, especially as its elderly population grows.
The ongoing conflict between the two religious groups was exacerbated by disagreements over holy sites in Israel.
Nevertheless, as Project Solarium noted in the 1950s, universal health care could mitigate the effects of an illness and irritant that aggravate the economic situation.
The Great Depression worsened the already bad economic and social conditions that confronted most Mexican--Americans in the United States.
The US health system was already in crisis, and the rising number of uninsured are likely to exacerbate this.
It was the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War that exacerbated conflict between protesters and the government, making both parties more unwilling to negotiate or compromise.
The war intensified the dispute and exacerbated the tensions between the two nations.
The second issue was that the nobles were infringing on the power of the Church; this lead to an exacerbation of an already serious conflict.
The influx of these foreigners would exacerbate the tensions between those who wanted to assimilate and those who wanted to preserve their identity.
In my opinion, the spread of English throughout the world has exacerbated rather than alleviated linguistic and cultural misunderstandings.
The town did not experience any serious side effects with the exception of some people having to change their brand of beer.
The conflict between the Protestants and Catholics had exacerbated the differences between the two cultures.
Perhaps the most serious problems the Cuban economy faced in the 1960s were caused by the United States, which exacerbated Cuba's economic problems.
The deteriorating situation in England after the Norman conquest was made even worse by William the Conqueror's scourging of the English aristocracy.
The ongoing drought in the region is likely to exacerbate an already tense situation among the local population.
The problems in Northern Ireland had been temporarily exacerbated by the war.
Another interpretation of the causes of World War I is that the arms race and the alliances which caused it to spread in the manner that it did exacerbated other problems, such as colonial conflicts and internal social conflicts.
Fortunately, the move from coal to nuclear power have lessened the impact of the most serious air pollution problems.
As we speak, these very debates are exacerbating the controversy over human evolution.
The Second World War intensified the refugee problem by exacerbating an already terrible economic crisis.
The emigration of skilled workers is likely to exacerbate the problem.
Zurich bank tells it to avoid taking loans from Britain, which aggravates the pound's slide on international money markets.
Due to conflict over the findings, a collective decision was made by the entire staff as to whether or not to release the information that would only exacerbate issues.
The ongoing tensions between the Armenians and their neighbours, the Azerbaijanis, were exacerbated by a war over the disputed region of Nagorno-Karabakh.
Though it was probably never used in regular English speech, the word ‘aggravate' has been part of the English lexicon for centuries.
In 1892, a US court ruled that the targeting of strikers was not illegal since it did not exacerbate the differences between rich and poor.
The League's actions only exacerbated the situation in North Africa.
The racial tensions already exacerbated, the town decided to bring in a black police offi- cer, although he was in fact their seventh choice for the job
It was hoped that an increased amount of aid given to underdeveloped countries would alleviate their poverty and alleviate their poverty and the feelings of frustration they felt as a result of it.
The world events in the late 1920s and 30s only exacerbated this situation.
It would be a mistake to think, though, that despite all their arguing religion in general was not an important part of life for ordinary people. The endless arguments between different denominations simply exacerbated the problem.
The American approach of granting independence to colonial areas exacerbated the problem, as it inspired rebellion in their own slave populations
Once the armed forces of the separate Duchies began to work together, they found they could exacerbate divisions between the regions and convert border clashes into all-out war.
The child's symptoms weren't treated until they had exacerbated to the point that she was behaving in a way that could be described as psychotic.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'combustion'.


#exemplar

You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'advocacy'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "favorable".
The most striking change in the appearance of mammals occurred in the early to middle Triassic Period, about 230 million years ago, when the first dinosaurs and mammals evolved.
The American Revolution was an example that proved to be an important historical
The American eagles are the national emblem of the United States and hence their usage is not an exemplar of the type of English that is required in university papers.
Eleanor is an excellent example of a strong female protagonist in that she defies many of the stereotypes of such characters.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apostle'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modification".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "loyalty".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'religion'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apathy'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'variety'.
The 'Chauvinist' attitude that Adichie depicts is an exemplar of the male culture in certain regions of Africa today, but such people do not bare any resemblance to Obinze.
The book is an exemplar of early English literature.
You ask the professor for the sentence containing the word "reprimand".
The destruction of the Berlin Wall in November 1989 has been called the symbolic end of the Cold War.
"People behave predictably according to their personality type," William said; that's why his campaign message was so successful. People recognized an exemplar of themselves in him; they saw a reflection of their own concerns.
During the period of the Roman Empire, England was a relatively primitive society with tribal groups such as the Celts and the Anglo-Saxons living in what we now know as Wales and England.
The Taj Mahal is a famous example of Mughal architecture and an important work of Islamic architecture.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "qualification".
Cortes is the best example of a conquistador.
The American Civil War is a classic example of a war of reunification as opposed to a war of independence.
During the reign of terror after the 1789 French Revolution, many middle-class people who had previously been skeptical of the revolution began to worry about its implications for them.
Another approach has been to look for an ideal or exemplary person, and every person is judged by how similar he or she is to that ideal.
The Taj Mahal, a spectacular marble mausoleum erected by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan to house the tomb of his favorite wife, is one of the world's most recognizable buildings.
In other words, this short passage is an excellent example of a concise, complex sentence.
He is not an honest man but a rogue, and what he's doing is not the best way to go about it but merely the best way he can think of under the circumstances.
An important exempal of an organism's enviornment is its envirnoment.
The Aztec civilization represents an archetypal example of a culture that destroyed itself by failing to achieve a balance between its needs and those of the environment.
His works are widely regarded as the standard against which all subsequent English poetry is measured.
The English Civil War was fought between the Royalists, who supported the king Charles I, and the Parliamentarians, who wanted more Parliamentary control and taxation rights.
Many emperors, beginning with the first, Augustus, were hailed as "exemplars" of their subjects.
While World War I was at its turning point, in that the Germans were beginning to realize that they would probably lose, World War II was in its crucial opening stages and decisions had to be made about how the world should be restructured.
In one sense of the word, democracy itself is an exemplar of a type of government: it has existed in some shape or form in many places at many times.
The British government of the late eighteenth century was a Liberal and Representative Democracy, and in order to emphasise this it set up or 'gave birth' to new republics such as the Batavian Republic in the Netherlands.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vigilant'.
He was considered the prime exemplar of the Romantic poet.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'dispute'.
However, some economists dispute this assumption.
Furthermore, Ptolemy also created an astronomical clock with rotating models of the sun and moon that was used to teach his model (what an exemplar for aspiring astronomers!).
The study of population genetics is not just about averages and extrapolation. The individual people whose genes are used in the study are also of vital importance. They are the exemplars to which future new discoveries will be compared.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modernization".
The first known contraceptive was a linen sheath that went over a man's genitalia and was applied with lint soaked in olive oil.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "fascism".
For example, most of the poems in one of the great medieval German epics, the Nibelungenlied, are written in an unusual meter called the "mnemonic verse".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
Abraham Lincoln when an ex-ample of an American leader.
One of the important figures in bringing this shift to the fore was probably Charles Darwin, whose work on the theory of evolution by natural selection was published in 1859.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "immutable".
The most important "exemplars" of this new ideology were the American and French revolutions.
The American Constitution is an exemplar of a set of laws for a modern, liberal democracy.
The "Blue Marble" image is one of my personal favorites. Taken in December 7, 1972 by the crew of the Apollo 17 spacecraft, it shows the Earth as seen from a distance of about .
In some ways, the story of Tom is an exemplar of the limitations of a political strategy based on protest and appeals to the state for aid.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word ‘misconception'
Often in the Middle Ages people believed what they read in an authoritative text without questioning its accuracy or taking more than a cursory glance
The rules were that the slaves could make requests, but the masters could refuse these and they could inflict punishments.
The idea was an attempt to make people more efficient machines and more docile workers by keeping them intellectually and spiritually occupied.
The countries of the north, including England, the Netherlands and Denmark, wanted to have free access to the Baltic states' ports.
Felix Mendelssohn's song "Die elf Montage des Jan van Hoorn" from "Die Kaskade" is considered an exemplar of the lieto anima style.
Some linguists, such as the late and eminent Joseph Greenberg, have claimed to have found evidence that all human languages can be classified into a small number of families, or 'exemplars', from which all other languages are ultimately derived.
The theory of the Big Bang is an example of a scientific theory that has withstood the test of time, like most theories that are grounded in laws and exemplars.
Exemplars are easy for us to recognize, but we rarely think about how the practice of using them to classify everything from furniture to flora and fauna got started.
Among the pets she owned was a poodle called Lionette which became the breed's exemplar.
The play is actually an allegorical exemplar of the seventeenth-century British political system.
While the abstract impressionists can't be considered entirely American in origin, one of their most prominent exponents, Willem de Kooning, is an excellent exemplar of the American tendency towards self-criticism.
At this point you wake up.
In 1066 William the conqueror invaded and brought feudalism to England, he was the main example or 'Exemplar' of a Feudal Lord.
Some people had no religious beliefs at all, like the father of modern economics, Adam Smith.
The Aztecs were by most measures the dominant regional power in 1519, when Hernan Cortes arrived with his expedition.
Traditionally, the works of William Shakespeare have been considered the supreme examples of excellent English, and students all over the world are forced to analyze his writings as an example of perfect grammar and vocabulary.
The American dollar, for example, is an important currency, but it is not currently a reserve currency, such as the British pound or the Japanese yen.
The model city of Brasilia is considered by some to be an exemplar of modern urban design, while others criticize its lack of history and its seemingly arbitrary foundations.
The first one they settled on was a French merchant ship called Le Beau Soleil, which was seized by sailors in the English Channel in 1793.
In a survey of social behavior among primates, one primate group is chosen as an "exemplar" of the different aspects under examination.
The Native American people that the first Europeans encountered in America was an example of a human culture that was not primarily based on the growing of food.
The painting "Return of the Herd" is an exemplar of the artistic style of the Buffalo Civilization.
The Native American tribes the Spaniards encountered in their conquest of Mexico provide a good example of the importance of exemplars in the spread of diseases.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fiasco'.
The Berlin Museum of Natural History is an utterly amazing museum that houses artifacts from all over the world and throughout history.
The sentence "She has been an exemplary mother," would be an example of the adjective exemplary's usual meaning.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conceptualization'.
For the Thracians, the Scythians were an exemplar of a war-like, aggressive culture; the Greeks were fearful of them and the Persians respected them.
The story of Charles Goodyear and vulcanization is a classic example of individual innovation.
It was a Roman custom to display the corpses of their enemies either during a holiday or afterward as an exemplar.
One of his favorite works is Jane Eyre, the story of a young English orphan who adopts an aggressive, take-charge attitude toward life.
The scientific method is essentially an effort to eliminate human bias through duplication of experiments by different scientists and the requirement that all conclusions must flow only from experimental results and logical deduction from those results
The novel Uncle Tom's Cabin, written by Harriet Beecher Stowe in the mid-nineteenth century, was a key piece of antislavery writing in the United States and probably the most famous piece of abolitionist writing.
Exemplars are models for others to imitate.
The Mayans were an ancient civilization living mainly in the rain forests of Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras.
The paintings in the Lascaux Caves in southwestern France are some of the most famous and important examples of Palaeolithic cave art.
The medieval Catholic Church was the largest and most powerful organization of its kind, serving as a stabilizing force through most of Christian Europe and often acting as an 'exemplar' for other Christian churches in other parts of the world.
Later in his life, he wrote a treatise that began the shift away from Aristotelian mechanism and formal logic as the accepted ways of understanding living things.
But perhaps it was the shock of losing his father that prompted him to become an oversensitive man who reacted strongly to everything, a common trait among artists and writers.
Benjamin Franklin, an American colonist and printer, became increasingly frustrated with English laws passed in the colonies.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'predominantly'.
Due to the extenuating circumstances, the judge was inclined to show the exemplar leniency.
Don't believe the carping critics, this movie version of The Portrait of a Lady is well worth seeing for those who care about the novel's exemplary exploration of the concepts of freedom, choice and responsibility.
The Second World War was an example of state on state violence on an industrial scale.
Until recently, students of literature were at the mercy of whatever list the professor happened to choose for his monthly assignments.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "immediately".
The common rights on the River Thames in London included not only the right of transit, but also the right to fish.
The most impressive ancient artworks are those of the Greeks and the Romans whose sculptures, buildings and paintings survive today as exemplars of great art.


#explicit

The theory of gravity, as set out in a publication by physicist Albert Einstein in 1916, was an explicit rejection of the established mindset.
The new law is only an explicit ban when the criminal is caught red-handed.
From an early age, Alan had always been an excellent student, and his favorite subjects were math and physics, which he found straightforward and explicit.
The Queen's subjects implicitly trust that she has their best interests at heart. Explicit verbalization of this concept would sound odd.
The team's instructions were very explicit; they were to follow a set itinerary and were not allowed to deviate from it under any circumstances.
You ask t
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'explicit'.
The United States had not only implicitly but explicitly stated that they would not tolerate a Japanese invasion of Philippines.
The United States had not only implicitly but explicitly stated that they would not tolerate a Japanese invasion of Philippines.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'explicit'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'explicit'.
The court's decision meant that parliament's powers were less explicit.
The court's decision meant that parliament's powers were less explicit.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'explicit'.
Her views on English soc
Her views on English society under the Tudors are very explicit:She violently attacks the rule of the Tudors
Her views on English society under the Tudors are very explicit:She violently attacks the rule of the Tudors
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'explicit'.
As an ‘art for art's sake' practitioner, he was the first to see the potential of explicit sexuality in art.
You ask the profe
Questions 22 to 26 are based on the following passage.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "favorable".
and were considered to be one the most advanced Native American cultures in terms of arts, medicine, and architecture.
You ask the professor for a sentence that contains "vary".
In addition to answering questions, you can also listen to story fragments read aloud by Alexa. These are called "echos"
"The only thing we can be sure of is that nothing is sure,"
The session ends.


#expository

You ask the professor for a sentence containing "elaborated".
One method, used by governments in ancient Rome and in the medieval Islamic world, was to introduce incentives to peasants (tax deductions, import and export tariffs) to produce a set amount of a particular crop.
The artists' work is fairly realistic and serves more as an adjunct to a visitor's understanding of the text than for its own sake, which makes it more expository than purely artistic.
Louis XIV was born in 1638 and died in 1715, a period of 77 years; that alone would guarantee him a place in the all-time longevity top ten.
"This book is too long," one reader said, so that I had to divide it into two volumes.
Although at this time there was a great deal of expository writing about the nature of the universe and the future possibilities of human society, very little was actually understood.
Expository writing is writing intended to explain something.
Expository writing is writing that is intended to explain a concept, idea, or event.
The most common kind of writing is expository, which is when you write to give information.
"It's all just prose and fairly unexciting prose at that. What is t
The topic of this work is the relationship between church and state in England after Henry VIII's break with Rome.
His main purpose was to write an expository book that could be used by students of the subject.
That is, the assumption that Genesis 1 is not an historical or scientific description of how the
Although the novel can be read on different levels: an adventure story, a satire, an allegory, a moral tale.
Expository writing are essays meant to explain a subject rather than to entertain or persuade the reader.
"Expository" seems to be the best word for it: an exposé explaining why the study of humans - what they're like, how they behave, and why - matters.
Professor: Even though it is an outstandingly flexible and descriptive language, Latin has been used to describe scientific and technological subjects since the Renaissance.
In words of one syllable, I want a description of the Holy Roman Empire.
An 'expository' is a short work of non-fiction presented in a simple style, sort of the writing version of plain cooking, or is at least supposed to be.
However, his expository works - in which he summarised and in some
The French New Wave is an example of a movie with an expository style, since it explains and sets the scene at the beginning
Surprisingly the doxology's translators found it easy to translate the content of their psalms into Hebrew because they were written in an uncommon but very precise form of Hebrew called Biblical Hebrew.
He confined himself to expository prose in order to make the subject matter approachable to a wide audience.
The purpose of expository writing, in the simplest terms, is to inform or explain.
An example of an expository writing is an instruction manual.
When writing an explanatory text it is important to include sections on what the reader already knows about the topic, what are the characteristics of the topic and a description of the topic's mechanics.
Expository writing is one of the most important features of academic courses of study at all levels, from elementary school to university.
Cicero wrote about expository writing in his work De Inventione.
The second movement, the idyll, is not only a representation of a particular place or time through its exposition of an event but also how that event relates to the universal condition of humankind.
The government claimed that the leader of the opposing party had plotted to assassinate the king, a charge which he denied vehemently; however, in a trial that took place behind closed doors none the less, he was found guilty and subsequently exiled.
Expository writing informs or explains something, rather than arguing a point.
The various expository passages should help you to understand the content of the biographies.
"However, the dramatic increase in population that occurred during the Industrial Revolution placed much more stress on scarce resources such as soil and water."
Expository and persuasive texts have a purpose to convince your audience to think or act in a certain way. The English language has several strategies to achieve this.
Your question has an easy answer if you have more than a little knowledge of English.
Expository writing is writing designed to explain something.
Expository writing is the arranging of words, phrases, and sentences into paragraphs in order to clearly explain or give information about a topic.
A second slide is visible with the following text on it:
The speech was written in an attempt to explain and defend Britain's decision to declare war on Germany in 1939.
The purpose of this paper is to determine the importance of the role that Martin Luther played during the Protestant Reformation.
Professor:They also argue that in an expository paper, the tone should be objective rather than subjective.
The novel's success lay in the fact that it used its characters, their plights and predicaments to make a larger point about society at the time of the writing as well as on the present.
The study of the law, in its broadest sense, involves examining the huge body of laws that have been created by society.
Expository writing is used to explain events, processes, or ideas.
These countries also had what was called a ‘protection racket'. Instead of outright annexing other nation's territory, they would give them protection from invaders. Of course, this protection came at a steep price.
The short story The Red Room is an example of a work of fiction in an enigmatic style, although it also has elements of the Gothic, the gothic novel, and the gothic tale.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Reformation'.
In the early twelfth century, the religious and military order known as the Knights Templars was established under the authority of the Church.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apostrophe'.
However, Levinas was not writing with the same care as Martin Buber who had spent a lifetime trying to explain the quintessentially Jewish ideas of religiosity and faith to an audience that was examining them from a rationalist perspective, namely his
Unsurprisingly, the current research that uses children for expository "science" has drawn some fire.
Expository writing is the least entertaining style of writing to read.
Expository writing is writing designed to explain something.
The movies of Mel Brooks, while hilarious and possessing many notable comic achievements, are distinguished primarily by their exuberant vulgarity (this is when vulgarity was amusing and not offensive—in fact, part of the joke).
The concept of an "independent" judiciary, as opposed to one based on the rule of men, goes back to ancient times.
The survival of a species depends on ecological and environmental factors as well as factors internal to that species itself.
The Expo's main purpose is to expose the world's population to the best that contemporary architecture, design and engineering can offer.
The sentence you chose was: "Not all prisoners have fingerprints, but any criminal that is going to go on a major crime spree is going to try and avoid being caught, so he won't leave fingerprints."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'revisionist'.
Professor James W. Menzies was born in Victoria, British Columbia in 1896 and died in 1969.
Roger, the main character of Steinbeck's novel "Flight", often lies. This lying is not without consequences: before the reader is told about Roger's mendacity, his lies have already started to catch up with him.
The writer aims to explain the causes and major events of the First World War.
The theories and philosophies of enlightenment thinkers and scientists such as Isaac Newton, Rene Descartes, Francis Bacon and Blaise Pascal led to major scientific discoveries as well as important philosophical advances in human behavior and thought processes.
Experimentation in the arts and music during the time of Romanticism led to an increase in the number of people who were writing poetry and composing music for the enjoyment of themselves and others.
The aim of the Baroque style in literature was chiefly to celebrate the glory of the Church and state.
"The ideas which guide a nation are extremely important, because they may have far-reaching effects. The education of the people in the principles of a government under which they live is not only necessary, but essential,"
In fiction, expository works require the reader to have information which one or more of the characters do not have.
As an expository writer, it is not your job to tell people what to think, but rather to provide sufficient background and reasoning so that readers can form their own opinions.
He used a conversational and expository voice, which seemed unusual for the classroom context.
The university's School of Journalism graduate division expressed interest in the students' expository writing abilities.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'qualification'.
Expository writing is meant to explain something.
The word 'constitution' is one of the most important legal words and terms.
Victorian writers were fascinated with the exotic, and so had a keen interest in other cultures.
The United States declined to sign the treaty for several reasons, not the least of which was an apprehension and even disdain for movements toward internationalization and general distrust of the Soviet Union.
The common reader had little taste for such subtleties; he wanted facts, not expositions of them.
The novel, a long fictional work that details the experiences and emotions of a protagonist, is an example of a literary genre known as the prose poem.
The report contained many facts and figures, some eloquent expository writing, and some speculation.
The late Roman period saw a shift from wanting a strong emperor, to being happy with any emperor as long as he was strong.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "exploitation".
The first person on TV was an actor who performed a speech about the danger of fire.
The novel is written entirely in the exosprophic style of writing, that is, it is written from the point of view of an observer who is not involved in events
And from this we can conclude that the uses of technology do have some effect on human society, since if they did not, technology would have been abandoned a long time ago.
Most writing in the Western literary tradition is expository.
The expository writing that explains a topic clearly to the reader without any particular opinion or point of view.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "denotation".
Professor: The scientific text I want you to analyze is "What Is History?" by E. H. Carr. This book is considered to be one of the most influential books ever written about the history profession.
Expository writing is a style of writing that is clear and straightforward, serving to explain or inform.
Some texts in the Bible are written in a poetic or narrative form but the books of the Pentateuch, the first five books commonly referreed to as the Torah or Law, consist mainly of court transcripts and legal documents such as the Ten Command
Expository writing holds the attention of the reader through the use of logic, explanation, and relevant details.
Paintings, along with other forms of art, have in common a strong element of ‘self-expression' or ‘self-revelation' and an ability to convey meaning and mood solely through visual elements such as
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "supportive".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "quintessentially".
The postmodernists, on the other hand, seek to expose what they perceive as the biases inherent in and underlying dominant discourses, including the science it is based on.
This chapter will focus on the various interpretations and implications of the geneticists' work.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unforeseen'.
There are three types of essays a student may be asked to write. They are the explanatory, the interpretive and the expository.
The third teacher, the one teaching the course on writing expository essays, was much more engaging and knowledgeable than his coworker.
The words pour from his lips in an expository rush.
He wrote almost exclusively on religious subjects with an expository rather than a creative approach.
Diligent students writing expository essays carefully and gradually introduce relevant points and facts and use transitions to create logic and flow in their writing.


#extol

In a famous speech, Martin Luther King Jr. extolled the heroic virtues of the brave African-American men and women who challenged segregation. He called them the "foot soldiers of the civil rights movement".
Dawkins goes on to extol the virtues of scientific thinking and how it is essential in today's world.
He praises freedom of speech but he doesn't seem keen on defending it.
Professor: The most famous example of such a plan is the South African government's policy of apartheid, or "separateness", which it enacted in 1948.
The Beatitudes extol a life of poverty and chastity.
The philosopher, who is Christian, extols the virtues of the Christian faith.
Professor: The Encyclopédie extolled the modern scientific method over outmoded traditions and religious dogma.
"The New Deal extolled the virtues of hard work and derided idleness," said Professor Owen needlessly.
The students quickly learned to extol the virtues of Joseph Stalin.
"To extol the virtues of polygamy is to put the nuclear family on trial, and this is something we cannot afford to do," he says.
However, most of the Objectivists who would go on to become conservative intellectuals extolled capitalism.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "oppress".
The monasteries were famous as centers of learning in western Europe, so it is not surprising that many monks are revered as having made important contributions to science in areas such as biology, botany, geology and astronomy.
The 19th-century naturalists Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace did not extol the virtues of the flora and fauna of Australia.
As Rand sees it, most philosophers throughout history have extolled reason at the expense of the emotions, leading to a misguided view of human life.
They extol the fact that your education at this university has not just equipped you with intellectual skills but also taught you the importance of moral behaviour.
The biologists' praise of the social insects did, however, lead some thinkers to extend similar accolades to another group of hard-working life forms: namely, the English middle classes.
The tendency of the Native North Americans to extol the virtues of vegetarianism was not for any moral or spiritual reasons but simply because their only source of protein was slain animals.
The article goes on to extol the virtues of the democratic system.
While the other boys spent their time out in the streets, Tom was shut in his bedroom struggling to extol the virtues of the Protestant hero, Oliver Cromwell.
While many charlatans extolled the supposed curative powers of native plants, Gauguin realized such magic could be improved upon and was hence only a trickster.
The Regency Spa Hotel was more than just a place of rest and relaxation. It extolled the virtues of a simpler, more elegant time and it did so with style.
We should extol her virtues and promote her as a role model for young people.
The poet clearly intends the reader to EXTOLL the courage and strength of these poor people suffering under such inhumane conditions.
A major part of the American school system is the encouragement of students to "reach their fullest potential,", or in other words the schools try to extol the value of hard work.
The film extols the virtues of treating everyone with respect and dignity.
"The Times" newspaper has consistently lauded the achievements of the company.
Without women in their lives, the men of the family often turned to drink and extol the virtues of their long-departed wives.
The medieval king extolled the Norman founders of the English monarchy in an effort to give his new line of rulership, and thus himself, more respectability.
The politicians have extolled the virtues of democracy and freedom.
The success of the Nazis and the failure of the Germans to extol the virtues of the free world led Winston Churchill to say, "We didn't see wickedness that exceeds what we already knew."
The new information homed in on three genes that extol proteins involved in immune system function.
"In the end, it was this deliberate obscurity that led to his ideas becoming gradually accepted and then extolled by the Nazis," she says.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'contemporary'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'connotation'.
Since at least the time of ancient Greece, fat has been extolled as a valued commodity.
"The autograph of Sir Walter Scott, which I cannot endure yet extol as much as any of his worshippers."
We extol the virtues of democracy, freedom of speech, and liberty, but do we practice what we preach?
Despite what he believed were some embarrassing excesses, U.S.S.R. leader V.I.
Extolling the nobility of the working class, some writers of this genre would digress into descriptions of working people's lives in a rousing fashion.
Many of Churchill's contemporaries extolled him as a man of great courage, honesty and leadership.
"New York Times" columnist Thomas Friedman wrote that it was an indication of how much the world had changed "for the better", and that the terrorists were inadvertently "giving us a Christmas gift by handing us a true post-Cold War victory".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'legacy'.
The legacy of the Nazis is one of the most lasting in the history of mankind:the blatant disregard for human life.
Instead, some Japanese authors extol the virtues of English study without necessarily linking it to purposes of job placement.
It extols the poem as a symbol of a pure and ancient time untainted by civilisation.
Professor: The Roman poet Horace extolled the role of philosophy to improve one's mind and spirit.
"We may even learn to extol the benefits of humility, altruism, kindness and other traditionally 'feminine' values so angrily derided by macho thinkers".
The young couple would often go out in the evening and exalt the virtues of their favourite singers.
Does feminism extol the virtues of women who choose professional careers and political activism?
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reconstruction'.
Besides its religious significance, Christmas in the 17th century was an excuse for huge parties at which upperclassmen extolled ihe beauty and grace of their ladies.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'sabotage'.
The account of George Washington extolling his men's virtues is not unique.
"The view past and future, such is the gift of imagination, which makes what is remote seem close, and the past come alive in the present.
Some have even extolled its virtues as a cure for cancer and AIDS.
However, religious thought extols the virtues of self-restraint and disinterest in material goods.
Nothing surprising then, that, for the most part, they extolled the virtues of the free market economy.
Intelligent people often praise the benefits of education.
The party ideologists extolled the virtues of living in the new state.
Nietzsche extols the virtues of war as a way of creating courage and resolution within the human race.
The poet's work extolls all the qualities that make up a perfect warrior.
The Christian gospel, according to 'The Book of Revelation', extols the virtues of those who were martyred for their faith.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'creation'.
The beauty of the glider pilots' skills were often extolled by the poets and writers of the day.
Many politicians and economists have extolled the virtues of globalization.
However, many of the baroque artists and writers that he extols are unknown to most of us and it is difficult to assess his claims.
One politician who does not extol the sporting virtues of boxing is George Foreman.
He was greatly honored in his lifetime, and is still extolled today as a hero.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'chauvinistic'.
Cyrus's chauvinistic ideas did not prevent him from using foreigners in his army or administration when he found them useful.
For years, the Chinese students had extolled the virtues of hard work and thrift.
The artists extolled the race's heroes and rich heritage.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'section'.
While we all work together most of the time, law enforcement officers also tend to be highly competitive with one another. They often extol their own agency's virtues and belittle those in other agencies.
They extolled the past of the Empire, especially its military victories.
Charles Taylor extols the virtues of the collaborative nature of the scientific revolution.
However, we should not extol the virtues of the French Revolution too much.
Some students, eager to extol the virtues education, asked their professor about his views on university funding.
Professor: The author most likely would have wanted to extol the benefits of a life without pain, hunger or fear.
"Common Sense" extols the virtues of citizenship in a republic and the rights and freedoms of humanity.
The linguists extol the virtues of the newly created language, saying that it will increase interracial harmony and maximize the potential of all the humans who will learn it.
In the eighteenth century, it was common to extol the values of human reason and to emphasize the intellectual advances that had been made.
The wealthy landowners of the city-states had a strong incentive to extol the virtues of their cities so that the businesses and the wealthy people wouldn't pack up and leave.
After the Greek defeat by the Melians, Athens complied and ceased to extol the virtues of democracy and free speech.
Elitist that he was, Herostratus extolled the ancient Greek philosophers and their superiority to all other thinkers.
Nobody listed the amir's many virtues or attempted to extol his great qualities.
"The New York Times" extolled his virtues, saying: "If there is a candidate for sainthood among American sports figures, Roger Ailes is that man."
The students were to extol the virtues of Communism and to warn about the dangers of Fascism and American imperialism.
We have to come to the defense of a country which is an ally, France, and which has been extolling democracy and liberty for decades.
Without spoiling the film for anyone who hasn't seen it yet, let me just extol the virtues of Kevin Spacey's character in this heist movie.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "justification".
The Catholic Church from the beginning extolled the virtues of celibacy for those who struggled to contain their sexual urges.
The ancient Romans were major inventors and very generous in their praise of past heroes, they always sought to extol the deeds of their forefathers with great sculptures and buildings.
In his Autobiography, the English philosopher and economist David Hume extols individuality and the virtues of independent thinking.
It appears that in every age, there is a tiny coterie that extols the importance of beauty and art and opposes the jaundiced view of human nature.
The British, extolling the benefits of empire, argued that it was a duty of every Englishman to help the mother country.
I could not possibly extol the virtues or your assistant, because I do not have the faintest idea what her virtues are!
Many religious leaders praise her work as a positive example to all women, but others deplore the fact that she is extolled as a hero simply because she abandoned her children.
Nebuchadnezzar II, who ruled ancient Babylon in the sixth century B.C., is one of the more famous names from the Bible.
It extols the virtues of flexibility and cooperation between nations.
"The Negro" extols the hardworking ways of the African-American, saying "We who have been enslaved outcast and prey/ To a tyrant nation's hate/ Have proven our title to life itself."
Not content with merely praising the Emperor's wisdom in promoting him, Fouché proceeded to extol him and his father in the highest terms, closing his letter with a request for a good present for his son.


#evaluate

In 1683, the College of Philadelphia was founded and it was the first institution of higher learning to teach "government, languages, athletics, chemistry and medical skills."
The religious aspect of the Reformation is hard to evaluate since there remain so many different opinions on it.
The economists wanted to evaluate the cost benefit of the project.
The main way in which the Begriffschrift improved on logographies such as shorthand is that it allowed for greater expressive flexibility.
The measure of the benefit of the drug—its efficacy and its safety in different patient groups—is the evaluation phase.
The ability of a human being to think reflects the fact that each generation of humans has built on the achievements of earlier generations.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "revolution".
The best way to "evaluate" a situation is to use only reliable sources of information.
While some people thought the war was justified because of the need to spread democracy, others think it can't be justified by the results because it only created more instability in the region.
Once the American troops landed in France, General John J. Pershing ordered them to be properly trained and evaluated before being sent into battle.
1.I will first discuss the strengths and weaknesses of the leading interpretations.
In my opinion, war is necessary from time to time to ensure the survival of our nation. I am sure you will all...evaluate that statement in your essays.
However, it's important to remember that the purpose of your evaluation is to give a sense of how candidate's think and what kinds of questions they ask-- not to prove some kind of point.
The American bombardment of Baghdad and the Iraqi defensive operations have been suspended since last night local time. The two forces are evaluating the results of bombing and counter-bombardment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'relevance'.
However, the economic impact of black slaves being freed on the south would have been severe.
The greatest strength of the new theory is that it's evaluation currently stands at ten.
The event marked the first time the new democratic government had been allowed to peacefully hand over power and evaluate its successes and failures.
The purpose of the National Health Service, which was set up in 1948, was to provide medical care for everyone.
The purpose of the workshop was to help participants evaluate the merits of the competing bids from different fibre-optic companies.
We can't really accurately evaluate your actions until we have a clearer idea of what actually occurred in the chamber.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "create".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'consensus'.
It is the duty of all citizens in a democracy to constantly police their government and to fully evaluate the government's policies.
Leading to the question we set out to evaluate: what is the role of the state in providing for the welfare of its citizens?
The main problem with nuclear reactors is that they require a lot of energy to build and to maintain, energy which at this time we simply cannot evaluate.
One of the things that we keep in mind while mapping the brain is that we are trying to not just describe what is there, but also to really understand what those parts are actually doing when a person is actively thinking or feeling something.
The situation at the end of the story is one that begs to be evaluated.
Evaluating the extent to which the views of these thinkers are correct is a matter of ongoing and often heated debate among both philosophers and non-philosophers.
The task of the historian is to sort truth from fiction and then evaluate
Professor: The first step in performing a critical evaluation of this information is to identify the context from which these facts and figures have been taken.
The experiment allowed researchers to measure the reactivity of oxygen molecules in three states: gaseous, solid, and liquid.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'emphasize'.
The first step in evaluation is to find a suitable source of information.
Having chosen your life's work, you are now ready to start evaluating the career opportunities within it.
The biggest difficulty in devising a way to teach computers how to understand language is evaluating the success of the evaluation process.
Every voter should be able to clearly evaluate the success or failure of each candidate's policies during the term in office.
However, at the time the scientists did not carefully evaluate possible alternative explanations for their findings.
He listed the reasons for and against, considered the arguments pro and con, and evaluated the pluses and minuses.
For example, the Nazis could easily have been able to defeat the Royalists if they had chosen to continue fighting in 1940. They chose not to do so, and it's a matter of historical record that this was in fact the case.
It is impossible to say whether the spread of the English language will result in the spread of American cultural values, but it is interesting to see that many newspapers in India have adopted the style of reporting common to American newspapers.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'monarchy'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'machine'.
The tradition of mechanical engineering in Nuremberg is as old as the city itself, beginning with the first master craftsman to set up business there.
In the last decade, religious scientists have been under increasing pressure to explain not only their theories but also possible weaknesses.
The causes of World War II are still evaluated by scholars and historians.
The extent to which the government in the United States should be involved in evaluating health care and education programs is a topic of hot debate.
The main historical implication of the evidence is that it proves beyond reasonable doubt that a single event caused the demise of the Clovis culture.
To put it simply, the ability to evaluate one's surroundings and make decisions based on past experience and information is what "intelligence" is.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'collective'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'calibrate'.
Professor League says "A lot of the talk about our work last night was concerned with calibrating units to measure different kinds of conflict."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "on the other hand".
The Eternals were also selectively bred, but more emphasis was placed on trying to create "perfect soldiers"
The other witness claimed that Johnson was reaching for his gun and that he had to act quickly in an attempt to stop him from harming anyone.
Suppose that a high school teacher is thinking of using your textbook next year.
The experience of a world war has caused many American citizens to re-evaluate the value of their democratic system.
The first thing we need to do is to evaluate the financial situation in these two periods.
"The way we do biology does need evaluation."
The court had to decide whether the technique used by the psychiatrist to evaluate the mental health of the defendant, called "the polygraph," was reliable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containg the word 'infer'.
It is important to routinely re-evaluate yourself in order to stay current and not fall behind the times.
After World War I, the League of Nations was created to help prevent that from happening and to help mediate disputes among its member nations; however, its effectiveness was limited due to an apparent mistrust of other nations, especially those that had been defeated
The events that we have related here are of course complex and will require a great deal more evaluation.
It is our task now to evaluate the evidence for these hypotheses and explain why the dinosaurs became extinct.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reinvent'.
Cognitive linguists are beginning to evaluate and systemize Chomsky's theories.
The savage was brought down from the mountain and taken to a nearby village, where he was tied to a chair in front of a panel of police officers.
But if we were to take your earlier statement as a serious proposal, we would be evaluating it according to the following criteria:
A major challenge facing all scientists is to improve the techniques for evaluating the genetic variations between individuals.
Marcel Mauss spent his life trying to improve the living conditions of the indigenous people in French-colonized Algeria.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'satellite'.
The most immediate challenge is to find methods to rapidly and reliably evaluate the safety of new vaccines.
The great thing about being a scientific thinker is that you are encouraged to spend time evaluating hypotheses and changing your mind about things when the evidence suggests you should.
While it is not exactly clear how useful this procedure will be in the long term, some scientists are optimistic and think that it may lead to a way of evaluating the safety of drilling sites for instance.
It was not until the late 19th century that the Marxist view of the French Revolution was seriously re-evaluated.
The first industrial revolution occurred primarily in Britain due to several factors, including the availability of coal.
Finally you ask for one containing 'overall'.
The main problem with Gold's argument, as with all evaluation of legal cases, is that there are different ways of looking at the available evidence.
If the theory of human evolution is true, it means that your parents and their parents, and all the way back to the beginning of life itself, were primates. And that's why American did not like it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "precedent".
Important concepts in:
However, during the reign of Ptolemy III Euergetes, the Library of Alexandria was burned. It is unclear whether this was done deliberately, but it certainly had a great effect on the emphasis within Greek culture on knowledge preservation.
It is unlikely that the people would have accepted a constitution that limited the king's power, without a means of legally forcing the king to obey it.
Other historians more keen to defend the Egalitarian interpretation of history have argued that the financial records were never meant to be an accurate statistical record of the people in each class and were only ever there to provide an 'at a glance' snapshot of the
The current method that is used to evaluate politicians' success is to examine how much they increased the gross domestic product.
Students are asked to evaluate the importance of the Second Mexican Empire in causing the United States to invade Mexico.
Professor: The concept of freedom was severely challenged in the 1960s and 1970s when totalitarian governments fell in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union replaced a brutal dictatorship with that of a democracy.
1. The purpose of the first sentence is to
Evaluating your own strengths and weaknesses seems like a logical starting place.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "criterion".
The Physiocrats were the first to attempt an objective, scientific evaluation of the wealth and economy of a nation.
The government needs to be extremely careful when they evaluate the new plan.
Evaluating the true nature of student politics in a legal and fair manner is impossible under the current system.
The term "consensus historian" applies to a whole school of thought and methodology about how history should be studied and written, not any one specific historian.
When it eventually opened, the Kursaal enjoyed success as a dance hall, theatre and music hall for the people of Southend until 1999 when it was closed to make way for a supermarket.
It is important to note that this issue is strongly related to the debate on whether the spread of English is a threat to the survival of other languages.
Obesity is evaluated different in different parts of the world, but is a high-level risk factor for early death independently of other variables.
The effects of the law are difficult to fully evaluate without a grasp on the historical and social context.
There was a difference in the way the different government authorities in England, Scotland and Ireland had been evaluating the testimony of the witnesses.
The urban population began to slowly and steadily increase, and only in the eighteenth century did their numbers really begin to evaluate.


#evidence

The most important evidence for plate tectonics was the existence of mountain ranges.
You ask the professor for a sentence starting with "The trial lasted..."
Despite the fact that the lack of evidence, none of the miners reported hearing a gunshot or seeing anything unusual happening around nine o'clock that morning.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "theory".
Overwhelming evidence from many fields of study demonstrate the onset of the period known as the Holocene with the retreat of the last glaciers at the end of the Pleistocene, about 11,700 years ago.
As we will see, evidence for this can be seen in the religious texts (examples of which I have attached).
The first is the lack of evidence that human societies have ever supported a large number of people who do not contribute to society in any meaningful way.
The evidence found in the cave indicates that it was used by ancient humans to preserve and consume prey, mainly horses.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reliability'.
However, there is no evidence that racial discrimination was an issue in the military at that time.
The remains are the first Neanderthal skeletons found that show no evidence of trauma or disease.
The evidence for this is in their skeletons.
The evidence we have gathered seems to prove that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a religion run by a human leader, who was convicted multiple times for fraud and polygamy and therefore has no actual connection to God.
The ancient Mesopotamians used in-body art as a form of evidence that they believed immortality was possible.
The evidence for this is the fact that all humans alive today, even Africans descended from the oldest Homo sapiens, have genetic changes causing differences in skin color, hair type, and other features.
The biggest problem is that the evidence for the African derivatives theory is almost entirely genetic, and hence widely open to criticism on that plane.
The students yelled, "evidence, evidence!"
The only physical evidence of what happened is the remains of about twenty stone buildings at the village site, including a well that's about four feet wide.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "conflict".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'characterization'.
You return to the room for another learning session.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'relevant'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'effects'.
You ask the professor for a sentence beginning with the word 'education'.
Professor: The strongest evidence that the double helix is correct is that geneticists can actually see a double-helix structure in the DNA of many organisms, including ourselves.
An ancient Mesopotamian brewing tub found recently in a dig site has been evidence of brewing by the Sumerians over 5000 years ago.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "such".
It is vital to remember that in any historical situation, a historian must consider all the evidence available, and not merely the evidence which supports his or her theory.
The evidence for the existence of witches was never very strong and the trials were based almost entirely on hearsay, suspicion and supposition built on foundations of ignorance and fear.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "rationalize".
Some evidence for this thinking is that the palace of Knossos was destroyed by fire around the same time.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'invention'.
In 1876, Alexander Graham Bell successfully invented the telephone, which allowed people to speak with one another even if they were a considerable distance apart.
Professor: The second law of thermodynamics states that the total amount of entropy (or disorder) in the universe continuously increases.
At the bottom, there is strong archeological evidence of a large Roman settlement.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'atheist'.
You ask the professor for a sentence that contains "homogenous".
Professor: The Marxist idea that the world is moving toward Communism, with the history of humanity divided into a set of stages: primitive communism, ancient society, feudalism, capitalism, socialism and finally Communism.
However, the most convincing evidence that the human species originated in Africa is that all human beings alive today.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "separation".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "oppression".
The evidence suggests that ancient Sumerian astronomers gradually increased the size of these numbers until they became what we know as the fractions we use today.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "back".
The evidence provided by the Etruscans themselves is written in a very pictographic form of hieroglyphics, which no one but the priests could read or write.
However, the most important evidence for this theory is provided by analyzing the life and reign of arguably the greatest ruler in European history.
The main evidence for this is that we all have DNA that contains the same genetic patterns.
There was no evidence that the two victims had any connection to Mario Ghirga, or to each other, for that matter.
Professor: The evidence we are examining in the case of the French Revolution's beginnings are the pamphlets that were published and read by the citizens of France.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "wrath."
Professor: His other main piece of evidence is the existence of stone buildings at a time when it was generally believed that only Egyptians knew how to build them.
The numerous pieces of evidence were very useful in dating the wall.
"That's enough for today, class," says the professor, closing the book. "I'll see you all in two days."
The government required all citizens to own a television, since everyone had to be familiar with the rules and a prime time half hour every evening was devoted to explaining them.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'transition'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "material".
The first problem with this was that the 'evidence' they had for this statement was mostly themselves, since most of the human remains at the time were of certain types.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'transform'.
Now the "evidence" has run out, and the mad rush toward an historic agreement has begun.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'instance'.
The most powerful evidence for this is the fact living cells contain a lot of phosphorus and that as they age, there is a corresponding decrease in it.
The 17th-century invention of the microscope stimulated new theories of infection.
Instead, humans evolved relatively recently in a small region of Africa and then spread from there to the rest of the world.
The evidence for this being the case is extremely limited and contradictory; We do not have one shred of evidence that she was a real person.
An experimental drug that had been developed to cure male pattern baldness was tested on twelve patients with terminal cancer, all of whom showed signs of rapidly growing hair within a few days
Professor: The existence of the study itself is evidence that in at least some fields, women were accepted as equals to men.
The evidence (of 'convergence' and 'common descent' in mammals) comes from studying the similarities in our genes.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "exist".
Professor: Morality, values, culture; all these things are not mere abstractions. They can be defined and examined using scientific method and evidence.
The evidence that exists in private art collections and public museums, though still contested, is increasingly thought to suggest an interpretation of the French Revolution as a crucial historical turning point.
Have you any evidence other than a ghost story from a drunk sailor to convince us that there is something sinister and dangerous at work in this village?
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
The best evidence used by the anthropologists was physical and cultural comparisons of human skulls.
Despite the wide-scale destruction of Roman writing during the Dark Ages, there is no evidence of any Roman writing referring to an event at the time that the Exodus could have occurred.
In spite of the fact that these English explorers and settlers would ultimately conquer the Aztecs, Cortez always spoke highly of them and thought it was a shame that they were to be destroyed.
The difference in clothing implies a difference in class or economic status.
The evidence given in favour of this war is the existence of several black sheep graveyards- large array of mass ancient graves containing the remains of hundreds or even thousands of sheep and arranged in a circular shape.
The importance of the evidence is the fact that it was found near one of the first archaeological sites where fossilized human footprints were found.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'precedent'.
The existence of crop circles has never been satisfactorily explained as anything other than contemp
The most significant piece of evidence was a skeleton discovered in the early 20th century, known as 'Piltdown man' or 'Eoanthropus'.
The future of torture as an accepted practice is difficult to predict, because it has been used in most human societies and there is always the possibility that it will be needed again in the future.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'interdisciplinary'.
The first evidence for it came in the work of Christian monks in Ireland, who used it in the process of handwritten copying of religious texts.
However, the most important evidence for humans having 'emerged' several million years ago was discovered 20 years ago in a cave in South Africa.
Although the first remains of "Homo
The evidence for the fixity of bacterial is that they can breed only within a narrow temperature range, and are killed by even small amounts of antibiotics, viruses or other poisons.
The first piece of scientific evidence for the theory was the discovery in the 1990s of Neandertal bones in Germany at the Feldhofer Grotto.
Professor: The oldest written evidence of the ruler's existence is a cache of legal documents inscribed on 7,200-year-old stone tablets discovered in 1987 in the ancient city-state of Ebla in Syria.
Furthermore, his armies took on the least likely of candidates as generals, especially those who had lacked any experience in fighting and those who had shown a lack of battle skills, both of which were previously considered detrimental to having command over others.
Livingstone's journals gave vivid descriptions of the evidence of human occupation hundreds of miles from any modern city.
The evidence of human occupation of the Americas is found in the history of Native American tribes and also in the skeletal, geological and archaeological remains of those tribes.
The lack of evidence surrounding the date of the cave paintings means that their age remains uncertain.
The evidence of skyscrapers and large factory complexes tells us that their economy was primarily based on mass production.
The evidence used in this case therefore consists of the written works of human history.
This list of questions is considered by some to be the world's first metalanguage.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing ‘illegitimate'.
The French were led by a 19-y
"Nonsense, we have mountains of evidence!" the dean exclaims.
The most interesting and also the most controversial evidence of this is a fossilised human humerus and two incisors found in California in 1924 and 1925.
The same fossil treasure trove that yielded the Toumai skull provided crucial evidence of life long before the first humans.
'The evidence, however, suggests that they managed to cross the Atlantic much earlier, which utterly changes our ideas about the history of the development of humans.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'civil'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'acrimony'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'essentially'.


#evoke

You ask the professor for a sentence containing "initiator".
The Civil war evoked a heightened sense of nationalism in the United States that was ultimately beneficial to the nation.
The speech was designed to evoke sympathy for the child workers
They are believed to have been designed to evoke feelings of powerlessness in prisoners.
Shelley's style in Frankenstein is not like that of the usual novels of the time, which usually evoked clear images in the reader's mind using details.
The current law would largely evoke discrimination against those who have been charged but not found guilty.
Professor: If your name is called, please come up and take an envelope. You are excused from class for the next hour so that you may go home and study the contents of the envelope.
But, some of his ideas, such as the proposal that large government investment in alternative energy research could alleviate global warming, while a good idea in itself was badly planned and evoked scepticism in many of his critics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'terrorism'.
The imperialists' greed evoked some degree of nationalistic resistance from the conquered peoples.
By locating the tribal and ancient sources of the stories, he attempts to evoke scenes that would have been known to his medieval predecessors.
"The experience evoked a feeling that I am not sure I have ever experienced before."
Unfortunately, the course has already evoked memories of boring classroom lectures in many students.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "transform".
She evoked the spirit of disagreement and compromise in order to solve the dispute.
The United States has the world's largest prison population, with an incarceration rate that "evokes [a] totalitarian state", according to Human Rights Watch.
The city evokes the glamour of the 1920s.
The painting is supposed to evoke a feeling of calm and familiarity, which is uncharacteristic of Bacon's work.
It is a long way to Tipperary, it's sad to think that way;
Nowadays, the topic of animal rights is very much in the air and people are increasingly thinking about the moral implications of experiments on animals.
Many women from the working classes were forced to work long hours in factories, which did not evoke the same emotion as the deaths of the upper-class women.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'festival'.
The song evoked memories of when he was young as his grandfather would sing it to him every Sunday afternoon.
The leader of the revolution, Maximilien Robespierre, was often able to evince popular support for his actions by appealing to patriotic sentiment.
"We need to find other ways of evoking school spirit," Mr. Stanton told reporters after being asked about the possibility of reinstating school uniforms.
The opening bars evoke the mysteriousness of the night.
The English Civil Wars are often seen as a precursor to the American and French revolutions in their demand for suffrage, freedom of speech and other rights.
It evoked memories of the time when politicians were so bitterly divided that America nearly went to war with itself.
The book evokes the atmosphere of the vernal equinox on a bare hill outside the village of Masada, in Palestine.
The propaganda evoked a feeling of nationalism and anti-communism, but it also made people dissatisfied with the government.
The scene in which the Protestant Boyne brothers shoot Roman Catholic policeman Thomas Byrne in the name of Irish liberty evokes Ireland's violent past.
One of the methods of teaching history used by Greg was to encourage students to actively 'invoke' evocative descriptions of scenes from literature or the media.
This was a common device used by the Nazis to evoke feelings patriotism, loyalty and fascism.
The authorities were unprepared for the disorder that their own actions would evoke.
Mr. Bumble, who occasionally looked in at the party...
The horrors of the Second World War did much to evince a widespread desire for international co-operation.
It was too late for the Prime Minister to properly scrutinize and comm. the plans, for starting the attack would immediately ev.
The attacks last week evoked a wave of solidarity and courage among New Yorkers.
The government's policy is designed to prevent the rise of social unrest by creating jobs.
The parade's loud music and colorful costumes evoked the passion of the ancient holidays it celebrated.
The most interesting thing about the Thirty Years' War is how it evoked the worst aspects of human nature.
No sooner had the music teacher entered the room, than suddenly a hush seemed to EVOKE over the young and restless class.
The congressmen's speeches evoked the spirit of rebellion in all the listeners.
"We have to evoke the idea that all knowledge is relative, as postmodernists do, or that all truth is ascertainable, as in the case of some modernists."
The controversy surrounding the work of the Bell Curve authors evoked a strong emotional response.
What do you think were the factors that evoked the American Revolution?
The fall of the Soviet Union in 1991 evoked much controversy among Russian historians, who disagreed violently about what the event meant in terms of Russian history.
The blast evoked images of the First and Second World Wars.
"The government hopes that the new measures will evoke a strong public response," said the prime minister.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'adiaphoria'.
The Death of the Moth by WE Bayly is a poem that evokes memories and feelings of a past life.
The article evoked both enormous praise and loud criticism.
The American dream is a social ideal that invokes an egalitarian culture in which each person has the right to pursue his or her own definition of happiness.
Although very original, some of his techniques for creating sounds evoked other musics that the audience may have heard before.
You ask the professor a sentence containing 'justification'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "corn".
In the movie, you are referred to as a detective with great intuition.
The dawn, which had been foreshadowed by a dull red glow in the sky, was slowly evoked by a golden sun.
One of the big surprises is that so many people continue to think the old theories still hold true, and are surprised when the results of experiments don't evince (\ ev-ahnd /) that.
"Did you evince any symptoms of inexplicable anxiety or nervousness?" the doctor asked.
The building's heavy exterior stone blocks were designed to evoke a medieval fortress, and the interior recreated a royal palace.
Hmmm...I'm not sure about this one. The words you gave me don't quite evoke a sentence. I'll have to think about this one.
The first two acts of the drama evoke the atmosphere of two people waiting in a train station.
Revolutionaries will always try to evoke the old glories of a strong, united nation.
His speech should enable us to raise enough money to give the children of West Virginia access to art and music, which would both evokes sensitivity and imagination, helping them achieve their full potential.
The bombing of London during the Second World War evoked a tremendous fury among the British people.
Despite the lack of recorded support from political leaders, the people in the streets began to evoke memories of a united Italy of the past.
"The period between 1945 and 1965 was a time when the younger generation in Europe began to evince some dissatisfaction with the way things were.
The former mining town of Sosnovka was evoked by the regime as an example of modern urban planning.
The elite of the societies of the ancient Near East tried to maintain their power by controlling the masses and at the same time encouraging them to pursue materialistic pleasures.
They're also able to use the media to evoke strong feelings among the electorate.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ubiquitous'.
The German use of the Griinder Tax to evoked the image of overtaxed peasants presents a
The debate about whether to continue to prosecute the war or whether it should be ended immediately and compromises made with the Indians continued to evoke strong feelings among the colonists.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'corridor'.
The Ba'ath Party was evicted from Baghdad in the early 21st century in a civil war that also
"She had a face that could only have been invented by some evil nativity2
The paintings are intended to evoke the feelings of the sublime and the beautiful in the spectator.
He evoked the spirit of the Cold War in an attempt to prevent the signing of the international treaty.
The images in the book remind us that most children, even in former times, worked from dawn until dusk, and often endured great misery.
The important goals of the American Revolution were to overthrow imperial control and to no longer have to live under a monarchy.
The spectacle of warfare can evoke powerful emotions such as patriotism but also horror.
It evokes the atmosphere of a tragedy such as King Lear.
The moon landing is often evoked as the moment when U.S. supremacy in science and technology was confirmed.
The arrival of the British on the East coast of Australia in 1788 evoked an unexpectedly hostile response from the native Aborigines, as contactors like John Howe were to discover.
Winsor seeks to evoke a time and place that are familiar to most of us.
The novel "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" evokes many emotional responses from its readers.
A true and ruthless dictator, he evoked fear rather than respect in the hearts of the people.
Efforts to conserve energy evoke images of teacups cost cuttings but could be more important at a time of global warming than most people appreciate, according to a new study.
In this book Dickens attempts to evoke sympathy for the poor and oppressed.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'outcome'.
The various anti-establishment groups evoked a spirit of rebellion among the youth of that time.
After the initial shock of his brother's accident had somewhat evoked, he was able to think clearly again.
The bloody image of the man in flames evoked childhood terror in the young boy.
The purpose of a liberal arts education is to evoke.
The architecture of the city was designed to evoke images of the Caribbean.
"I could feel my memory being evoked by the smell of the new leather."
The conversation was beginning to evoke feelings of impotent rage in him.
He wrote the introduction to a book of photographs that were supposed to evoke strong emotional reactions.
"Her appearance in the banquet hall evoked awe amongst all those present."
Casimir's motivations for writing his book are not clear.
The smell of polish in the furniture store evoked memories of his childhood for Tom.


#fabricate

In addition, they could also use a metal they called "bronze"; a mixture of copper and a metal called tin, which had to be processed first, before it could be used, because it occurs naturally as a solid block.
The state of the global economy, particularly in Europe and the United States, was getting close to collapse by 1929.
They were confident that gravity was too powerful a force to fabricate such a lie.
The modern world is largely a result of gigantic steps made in the fields of science and technology.
it was logistically difficult to fabricate the hundreds of tons of concrete and thousands of tons of steel needed to build such massive structures.
The manufacture of plastics is a revolutionary step in the Industrial Age, allowing materials to be fabricated (created) for the first time.
"The private sector needs to be involved in world hunger, because the government is bad at fabricating new technologies and would take too long."
In the video Thurgood and Eliza observe a man in a hazmat suit using an automated machine to fabricate one of the spacecraft's turbine blades, which are surprisingly simple in design.
During the nineteenth century, the industrial revolution had a negative impact on the environment and led to the indiscriminate destruction of natural resources.
You tell the professor that you want to choose your own word.
They attributed the declining interest in space exploration in part to a tendency for modern Western society to fabricate artificial needs and to emphasize consumerism, which they claim had led to a decline in community and a loss of contact with nature, which they warned
The idea that women have fewer rights and are viewed as inferior beings, is a fabrication by those in power to justify this.
The novels describe the methods by which these advanced beings, especially the marvellous Olaf and doctor Tre vir, fabricated human bodies and even whole human beings out of biological materials.
The primitive nature of ancient man's weapons and tools means that many of them must have been made shortly before or even after the archaeological dig was done, probably to be sold to tourists.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fabricate'.
His tales of exploration and adventure had been fabricated by a popular magazine and he never even left England.
The main gun-manufacturing factory had been damaged by a bombing raid, and the machinery that was used to fabricate the gun barrels wasn't working anymore.
It is not necessary to fabricate complicated mechanisms to drive flagella, because there are simpler ways of moving about.
Implementation of gunpowder weapons would have far-reaching effects.
The Civil War caused a great shift in the way blacks were treated: from being considered largely as sub-humans who should be enslaved, to being seen as human and worthy of equal treatment under the law.
"The metal was clearly some form of alloy, and its manufacture involved processes and techniques unknown to current technology," the historian fabricate.
‘What manipulation have you carried out in the fabrication of your evidence to back up your conspiracy theory?' asked Jacobi.
He suggested that the name was chosen to fabricate an illusion of inclusion.
The first sentence that uses fabricate is:
It needs to be able to talk convincingly about the changes in the organisation of manufacturing that have occurred in the last decade,and how these might affect the way people vote.
In a move clearly designed to lay the groundwork for later military aggression, the country has been fabricating large quantities of chemical weapons.
The second claim, a theory of religious and philosophical fabrication,
The only things they really had to fabricate, were documents such as marriage certificates for the people who had been deceased for more than three years.
The evidence that you have given us actually proves that the atom bomb was not needed to end World War II.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ostensibly'.
Einstein did not agree with their interpretation and instead wrote a paper that was critical of it and how they fabricated their data to fit their claims.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'enormity'.
In ancient times, the educated and influential people criticized writers who presented their work as fact when they knew it was completely fabricated.
Scotland has long had a reputation for heavy industry and fabricating goods, but since the closure of the traditional shipyards such as those in Hunter's Quay, the largest centre of manufacturing industry is now located in Pollokshaws.
The bombing of Yugoslavia was a key point in the history of the Cold War as it was the first time that the main result was not a clear cut victory for one side or the other, but rather a "moral"
Metal detectors are used to detect or 'flag' the interesting metal objects buried underground.
We may have one of the best security forces in the world, but we can't fabricate the laws of physics.
He's been making a living by fabricating.
He was considered a great success to his family because he was the first to leave the planet and was even able to fabricate a working breathing device for himself.
The addition of black powder to the rocket will result in the combustion taking place within an enclosed space.
The cast of "Der Ring des Nibelungen" was made in part with fake gold, and the ingenious method of creating it was lost for centuries.
Most of our adult bodies haven't changed much from their earlier forms; we've just fabricated more efficient ways to kill one another.
With the invention of heavier-than-air flying machines by a man named Orville and his brother Wilbur in 1903, heavier-than-air flight became a reality
The medieval church's attitude towards scientific progress encouraged the belief that humans were superior to nature and could even fabricate items such as gold.
He also claimed that the FBI had him detained as a prisoner in order to force him to fabricate the results of this research.
Atomic manipulation could also potentially be used to create new, lighter products with a wide range of uses, from space vehicles to medicines.
The police brought charges of fraud or fabrication against the professor.
The philosopher John Searle has argued that computers will never be able to understand language or have other human capabilities, for the reason that they cannot fabricate or create.
‘I believe that most of the world's petrochemicals are going to be manufactured this way.'
"There is absolutely no evidence that William Shakespeare ever wrote a play," he declares, immediately fabricating a scenario in which the Earl of Oxford, Francis Bacon and Queen Elizabeth, among others, "colluded"
The French sought to fabricate evidence that would support their claims over the islands.
Professor:They say the world would not have been the same if Hitler had managed to fabricate his plan, the Holocaust, to eliminate European Jewry.
In his autobiographic work, he wrote about the experience of being in a concentration camp and how he was forced to...
The controversy that erupted over the supposed early human fossils led to both scientific and public criticism of such fabrications.
The discovery could lead to techniques that will allow scientists to fabricate vast areas of the brain.
The necessary equipment for the industrial production of steel was largely nonexistent at the beginning of the 19th century; by its end, the chemical and mechanical revolutions had happened.
The use of computers to fabricate perfect models of molecules is called computer-aided drug design.
Professor: The National Socialists' fabricate a story that the Jews are behind Germany's declining economy and are intent in pursuing an international agenda to bankrupt the country.
The iron maiden was a coffin-shaped device with inward-pointing spikes, designed to slowly torture and eventually kill the victim.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'operators'.
Nations have a strong incentive to fabricate national myths of common descent, such as the English story about Anglo-Saxon kings.
Plastic is used for the most part to to make synthetic fibers, which in turn are used to make synthetic cloth, as well as plastics
The cannon itself was a cast bronze mechanism with a touch-hole for igniting a gunpowder charge, and the whole device was mounted on a carriage for easy transportation.
You gently fabricate something that you hope the class will believe and you tell them.
At the same time, the terrorists will have trouble fabricating something that can dissolve five inches into human skin without causing acute pain.
Unfortunately the material is forged quite well and there is no way of proving that it is false.
However, it is more difficult to fabricate
The trio were also charged with the illegal possession of firearms and the fabrication of bombs. ( (LINK REMOVED) ).
Most of what the public knew about the bombing was disinformation that the government had fabricated.
The Iraq War was started under false premises by politicians who wanted to fabricate a threat to the American people.
The government has been accused of fabricating the existence of weapons of mass destruction in order to help mobilise support from the international community.
At the age of only 31 Jacob is an important world leader and has used his position to fabricate several justifications to invade other countries.
This was the era of the great alchemists, those who tried in vain to fabricate gold from other substances.
His uncle was a brilliant scientist, who in his later years developed the ability to travel to parallel dimensions, but he vanished soon after he first fabricated the machine that might allow human beings to do so.
The first country to manufacture coins was ancient Lydia, in present-day Turkey, although the writing system upon the coins was based directly on an existing system of counting values by incising marks into clay.
He was a key figure in the events that culminated in the fabrication of the event that sparked World War I.
Many early scientists of the world used their scientific findings and discoveries to fabricate elements of the human experience such as the origins of man, the story of creation and the existence of an almighty being.
The Second World War saw the peak of the arms race as enormous resources were used to fabricate weapons.
"Most of the fossil that was used in the fabrication of tools were from the bones of dinosaurs, like the Iguanodon and Hylaeornis."
The explosive was carefully fabricated from a variety of easily obtainable materials.
The Wright brothers are popularly believed to have flown the first plane in 1903; however, this belief is false, as there is no evidence they flew, or indeed even built a plane.
The Middle Ages chemists would produce solutions, pastes, or blocks which could be either consumed or used to cure people from various diseases or make them unconscious.
During the Middle Ages, it was a frequent charge by church authorities that witches engaged in the demonic rite of creating children with supernatural abilities, which they then used to do their bidding, such as harming farm animals or sowing discord in a community.
It is important that students in your class should have a clear understanding of this historical period, as many seem to fabricate their knowledge of it.
Professor: The bombs used in terrorist attacks are often 'homemade' from readily available materials.
Also, in the latter part of the twentieth century, it was feared that science might help to fabricate a new class of living beings.
The advancement of technology was ingenious and the ability to create and fabricate new materials was crucial.
The American government secretly made up a story to fabricate a reason for war.
The Romans, ingenious as they were, didn't actually invent a lot of the things history has given them credit for.
' To anyone in the know, this is obviously a crude fabrication designed to deceive and mislead the American people. Can we fabricate in the affirmative, Mr Primer?'
The first spin-boxes were made of wood; later models were fabricated from a light metal.
Whether it was the assassination of Franz Ferdinand or the invasion of Poland that was the spark that ignited World War II, there is no doubt that these events were central in the eyes of the Americans when deciding to enter the conflict.
Brennan had not in fact even constructed the fraudulent paperweight, which was the work of a graduate student three years his junior.
He would have to fabricate the entire machine from scratch, since they were fairly complex instruments whose blueprints had long since vanished.
The politician's proposal was almost completely untrue and was just a fabrication meant to convince people to support it.
However, when the League of Nations failed to prevent World War II, that plan was abandoned.
They were also experimenting with various substances to fabricate a surface layer to the base material to make it faster and more responsive.
'Why would they fabricate something like that?' Peterson asked incredulously.
The earliest evidence of glass manufacturing techniques dates from about 3500 BC in Syria, Egypt and Mesopotamia and by the time the early Greeks were making glass, involving Solomon's seals in their designs.
The idea of a common descent for all life was first proposed and then widely accepted because it appears to explain the similarities seen in different species, not because anyone had observed one species changing into another.


#facet

When he was studying for his medical licence, Greg started writing a facetious essay about the many diseases you could get from dogs.
They explored every facet of what it means to be human.
To investigate the Mughal Empire's impact on Indian society, historians focus on how a ruler in New Delhi affected people living far away from the capital.
In the second half of the eighteenth century there was a decline in marriages at first sight, perhaps due to an increase in people who had become socially active within their own community and hence had many potential marriage partners to choose from.
The faceting of the cube requires a process of trial and error that, while not especially difficult, must be carried out with some care.
During the period leading up to World War I, the leaders of the Great Powers in Europe sought a way to avoid going to war, however, their diplomatic efforts were largely ignored due to the military planning that was taking place in the various governments.
She is a woman of many talents, an English teacher and
These factors, as well as a change in diet to include more skewered meat and bone marrow, probably made humans larger and stronger, with a bigger appetite.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apocalypse'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'parliament'.
However, the debate on the pros and cons of globalization touches on many more issues than just economics, touching on politics, culture, religion and even sport.
His other important contribution was the clarification of the relationship between base pairs and the development of the "wobble" theory of pairing with James Watson, which is now the basis of our understanding of DNA structure.
Facet, as in side or aspect, is another word for the different parts of something that can be looked at separately, yet are still part of a whole.
The books are organized into six facets: art and visual culture;
The problem has two facets.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "complex".
Influenced by the empiricist John Locke, Jefferson believed that all knowledge was derived through the experience of the five senses.
The facets of the stele tell of Yao's life, from his childhood (represented by a picture of a child) to his death (represented by a picture of a corpse).
When addressing a medical issue, doctors will often need to consider mental-health issues as well since there can be more than one factor contributing to a patient's troubles, and these factors are often interrelated and interact in complex ways.
The face-like feature of the comet became famous and was extensively interpreted in various ways by scientists, mystics and laymen alike.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hypothesis'.
The second is the religious facet, which again is shared by most civilizations.
Each chapter, like each facet of a diamond, shines with many colors when the diamond is turned in the light.
His musical talent clearly lay in the performance of popular rather than classical music, in which field he also displayed considerable skill as a pianist, guitarist and composer.
It is easy to classify humans according to body structure, but this is not very useful because there are so many exceptions to these 'rules'. Facial features, on the other hand, are much more consistent.
However, the legal and political aspects of genetic testing are also incredibly complex, raising ethical questions about how this might affect your family, your children and even future generations.
The Crown had to respond to the demands of the people; it was under great pressure from both sides; and it was attempting to control the ideological clash between American and British revolutionaries, as well as quelling a facet of colonial rebellion.
The United States Department of Defense has to contend with large annual budgets, a bureaucracy that is hard to manage, and political bosses who have their own pet projects, also known as voters.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "president".
The American founder Tom Paine criticized the institution of monarchy as a facet of the ancient world that checked the power of rulers.
The reason for that, according to the criminologists, was that DNA fingerprinting technology was very accurate and could implicate almost anyone.
One might have thought that a man who was capable of moving the world in the way that Hitler did would be an intensely complex individual, but this isn't exactly the case.
There are many other possible facets of this issue that we haven't even come close to discussing here.
The trial uncovered some ugly facets of Mr. Williams's personality.
These sculptures are works of great historical and artistic significance; they were also highly polished facets of his character.
'The development of lasers has revolutionized the facet of medicine.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'consequential'
At the same time, many were worried that this would only give more power to the nobility who controlled most of the East India Company's shares, and thus
He has written extensively on the different facets of the human mind, but many of his theories are too complex to be put into laymen's terms.
The man faced his opponent, and they circled each other warily.
The sphere has two flat hexagonally shaped sides and one round hexagonal shaped side, all of which are equivalent .
In the seventeenth century Catholic churchmen in Bohemia were persecuted for refusal to renounce their faith
The royal law enforcement agents were responsible for tracking down and arresting errant sorcerers, or in other words, people illegally practicing sorcery.
In the Middle East, in areas like Saudi Arabia and Iran, energy is a critical issue, yet little research into alternative energy sources is being done.
Every gem has what is called a "crown," which is usually the top facet, or the one you would see if you were holding it erect.
The United States was a country with a large element of freedom, having little government intervention in business and other facets of life.
The incident highlighted the main facet of the dispute between papalists and anti-papalists: the relationship between religion and civil power.
The landscape here of the plateau is very different, with flat plains giving way to steeply carved cliffs and gorges where streams have cut deep tubs in the sandstone.
Myra Hart, one the well-known female Marxist economists in the world
The new museum has exhibits illustrating all the facets of ancient indigenous life, and a large number of sacred ritual objects are on display.
Although many people have several different hobbies, there is often one that is most important to them, and for which they might even make special equipment or even a special room in their house. This feature or aspect or "facet"
While all the precious stones used to be categorized under one heading, "precious stones," nowadays each one is considered separately in terms of its facets.
Some historians argue that the bombing of Dresden had a great effect on the course of the war and was a necessary facet of military strategy.
However, it is a different facet of the same vision.
There are two main facets to your argument: firstly, a ban on smoking in public places is desirable as it stops non-smokers from having to inhale passive smoke; and, secondly, it is efficient as it will free up doctors
There are several problems with this theory: it's facet is overly simplistic, and it is hard to see how it could have given rise to language.
The first facets of the Big Bang theory were suggested by the astronomer Carl Segan in 1929.
The popular press focused on the most bizarre and sensational reports, which led to the public having a somewhat distorted view of piltdown man, believing it was an intermediate to modern humans when in reality it was only an isolated fossil with idiosyncratic characteristics
Making all the right moves is certainly one facet of leadership, but it is by no means the whole story.
One reason for the diversity of faceting is the purity of the diamond.
Jane Austen's novels are about courtship and marriage, with all the attendant social arrangements that entails; inevitably they also involve a fair degree of social climbing and snobbery, an interest in the sometimes complex rules of etiquette at the time,
The development of industry in the city brought many social problems, especially in terms of overcrowding, poor sanitation and crime, all of which have implications for us today.
The building's front surface, a giant stone facade several stories high, reflected the sunlight so fiercely that it was impossible to look at the building directly (especially at sunset).
But the expedition was a failure: the castaways discovered that their island had little of interest, apart from fish, and after a year they all wished to leave.
The painting is not only a representation of the ideal woman of the time, but it also reveals the more formal characteristics of portraits of the late 16th century.
It is our own doing that the world has its current set up, with families being the primary governmental unit called a ‘nation'
These laws were part of King Hammuari's response to the invasion of the Sea Peoples, who invaded Anatolia (today's Turkey) and were headed towards Egypt.
In fact, he pointed out that the fourteenth-century theologians had correctly interpreted 'kernel' or 'facet' of theology, which was correct at the time.
The five-year project explored some of the religious and moral facets of scientific advances in genetics.
A diamond has many facets that can only be seen when reflected in the proper light.
Other, physical, evidence includes the existence of faceted technology in many of the cultures you are familiar with.
In the first years of his reign, he dealt effectively with the many challenges he faced and won widespread popularity.
There are religious movements and organizations that address almost every human need, from the intellectual and ethical to the emotional and material.
Sitting on a windowsill in the sunshine, she turned the faceted crystal over and over in her hands.
He is a great professor and has many teaching awards for his facilitation of the student learning experience.
Facet is the Latin word for "side"; when something has many sides or faces, we call it "multi-faceted."
The stained glass window was crafted in an elaborate design, with each panel on a different historical or religious theme.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'methodology'.
He challenged the traditional religious ideas, but not in any sort of systematic or organized way focusing mainly on challenging certain facets of the established church.
Some European writers believed their countries should remain free of such faceless, bureaucratic organizations.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'interpret'.
The art historian had an encyclopaedic knowledge not just of ancient Greek sculpture, but also of the works' locations, materials and even the subject's artistic "facet".
One of the most important facets of the postwar employment system was its guarantee of lifetime employment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "Agrarian".
Furthermore, contrary to the claims of neural scientists, we may not even be able to identify all the Facets of consciousness.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'impossibility'.
The law has many facets, one or more of which intersect with criminal behavior in complex ways
The British Empire had many different facets, including an attractive language, legal system, and culture.
The tour guide's comments in Dachau cast the Nazis in a bad light by focusing on the negative, facet of their treatment of prisoners.
The answer to that doesn't lie in what values are taught as right and wrong, but more in the mechanics of how we learn those values which perhaps boils down to parenting techniques and methods of socialization in early childhood.
The same book had laid out a plan for the war. The facet that made it particularly interesting was that it had been written by Jennifer Sosa herself.
The public could handle one scandal, but the accusations of fraud meant that there were now multiple scandals surrounding Boohr's work and he lost all of his academic sponsorships.
The fate of the Jivaro has been intertwined with that of the outside world's ever since the outsiders, in the guise of rubber traders and missionaries, first entered Jivaro territory, or Amazonia as the locals call it.
The two main facets of the debate are whether or not Native American population was small and spread out when the Europeans first came in contact with them and whether this small group was caught out by a catastrophic epidemic.
A diamond has many facets that sparkle.
He sat at the computer terminal and began to explore the various search engines available on the World Wide Web in order to find out whether there were any academic journals or other publications that might have articles of interest to someone working in a university.
It was helpful that the politician had had many different experiences as a soldier, and he used these different facets of his personality as votes in his favor.
The fact that a mirror reflects your image from its surface is an example of the mirror's 'physical' properties.
"One study suggests that tetracycline, a common type of antibiotic, binds to tooth enamel, making the teeth more prone to decay."
This has led to doubts about the theory of evolution, especially since it fails to explain how such complex abilities and behavior of human societies could be based on genetics alone, rather than divine creation.
The sphere has four equilateral triangular facets which meet at vertices and 12 edges.


#factor

For example, the relative uniformity of material culture throughout Australia has been explained by positing a single 'Pompeii theory' of colonization: a population, living elsewhere in the world, was wiped out by catastrophe, and only a small
The chief factor in the extinction of the dinosaurs was their size: any animals that big were necessarily extremely inefficient at converting food into energy, so they needed vast amounts of food to survive.
The other major factor was that Franklin's invention made books so cheap that libraries could be built.
The emperor's arrogance as a political leader was a contributing factor in the revolution.
The main factor behind the rise of the European nation states was the consolidation of power under monarchs, which led to a strengthening of the central government.
Furthermore, it was a type of warfare that required such organization and planning that only large kingdoms could engage in it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "emphasize".
The political struggles in the British Parliament emphasized personal power and individual will.
Oddly enough, one of the factors that helped bring about the war was an attempt to end war in Europe.
Tobacco was one of the first major cash crops that the English settlers brought to North America, and it quickly became a primary source of income for England.
The most important factor in a nation's economy is its government; specifically, how is it organized and what ideologies does it hold?
Why did the Thirty Years' War end when and as it did? A variety of factors are responsible.
Religion was a key factor in causing the Thirty Years' War.
In his new book, the historian Ian Pollard says that "...more factors led to the collapse of the American Civil War in 1865 than just...
Another issue was that transportation in the town was a major factor hindering industrialization
A labor shortage is a reduction in the supply of labor compared to the demand for it, which serves to drive up the price of labor, or in other words, wages.
You ask the professor for a sentence beginning with "The most important factor..."
The most important factor that ensured Europe's global domination was the tradition of rational thought and empiricism that had been ongoing for centuries.
The following year was a turning point, for it was in 1920 that women were given the right to vote, a major political achievement, as it ensured that women would no longer have to rely on male members of their families to represent them in political
Some reasons for the failure of the Weimar Republic included its weak internal structure, its inability to handle inflation, and most importantly, the fact it was born out of Versailles.
However, there are many other factors involved which make the situation more complex.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideological'.
It is important to realize that trade between nations is just one of several factors in economic globalization.
Since the 19th century, industrialization has been a major factor in contributing to global pollution.
The most important factors in stopping the spread of communism were the North Korean and the Chinese armies.
There are three main factors involved in the speed of plant growth: light, temperature and nutrients.
Professor: Several important factors contributed to the dramatic fall in the prices of raw materials.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "enact".
In 1867, the Indian secret societies began planning an organized attack against British soldiers and colonists.
The most important factor in the spread of Islam was its appeal to Arab pride.
The main factors in the collapse of the Inca Empire were diseases brought over by the Europeans.
What are the main factors leading to the French Revolution?
Currency manipulation is certainly a major economic factor.
Despite some spectacular exceptions such as the Black Death, which radically changed many aspects of social life in Europe, most historians argue that changes in European society before the Industrial Revolution were effected primarily through social factors such as epidemic disease.
In the last twenty years, population growth has been a major factor in the destruction of tropical rain forests.
We have to look at internal and external factors.
Q. Name two factors that made a renewed conflict inevitable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'government'.
However, the primary factor in their development was software mechanics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'believing'.
During the period between the collapse of the Roman Empire and the rise of the medieval Church, four major factors influenced the development of education.
Your Evaluation:
The civil war in Ireland ended after the creation of the Irish Free State, with twenty years of brutal bloodshed when a compromise was reached to end the Home Rule Bill, with Ulster becoming predominantly Protestant remaining as part of the UK with limited self-rule
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'judgement'.
The most important judgement made by the judges is who won the election.
The most important factor in the success of the attack was the ability to build strong, fast, ships.
The outside factors that most influenced the English Civil War were the Kings' attempts to impose Catholicism on England.
One reason is that it was not until the mid-nineteenth century that Europeans had enough political unity and power to influence and change what was going on in China.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "Ludditism".
Professor:The kind of view, or perspective, a historian takes on a particular event or period can be called the historian's "factor".
Immigrants were blamed for the economic problems of the 1890s in the United States, such as the decline in wages and the rise in unemployment rates.
The most important factor in the rise of Fascism was economic.
The factors that caused The First World War included old alliances and the arms races between countries.
Although there are many factors involved in the current explosive growth of technology, the one that captured the attention of everybody is what is known as Moore's Law.
During the French Revolution, the ideas of the Enlightenment, one of the factors that contributed to the revolution, (CHOOSE 1) had become widespread among the educated elite.
One of the most important factors in the spread of the plague was the lack of knowledge of what caused it,
A new factor in legislation working against Southerners was that railroads soon became a powerful corporate interest that favored the Northern home market.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'alleged'.
Before you take your leave, the professor shaking your hand, he asks you when are you going to major in history. You smile and politely decline to answer.
Labor unrest, or strikes as they are more commonly known, were a factor in causing the May 4th massacre.
However, in this case there is only one clear factor: mankind's industrialization.
One factor was the way in which the Atlantic Ocean made it easier for the first European explorers to reach and settle America.
The most important factor that prevented the industrial revolution from starting in England first was the shortage of labor at the time.
The 'political' or 'environmental' theories both attempt to explain why the Roman Empire fell by suggesting that there was a specific cause, or factor, which led to its decline.
The important factor for them is that if population growth increases above replacement levels, then there could be serious problems.
For the housewife of the 1950s, the advent of the washing machine meant less chore of doing the laundry, but for the working-class girl it meant one less job available to her.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'proposal'.
Professor: Perhaps you need some time to refresh your memory about the words you learned when I come back.
There are various potential factors that may have led to the decline in crime during that period, including changes in the global economy and also improved policing methods.
The main factor in the development of parliament was the rise of the trading class, or bourgeoisie.
The fact that humans from all over the world share a small set of genes is a strong argument in favor of the "Out of Africa" theory.
It was the fall of Constantinople by the Turks in 1453 that cut off the West from a major trading part of the world. This was one of several factors leading to the decline of the Western Roman Empire.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'or'.
It is believed that family pressure was a major factor in the high incidence of depression among women in the nineteenth century and that providing nurseries would have reduced this problem.
Politically, the African continent was a collection of factors, not an entity, and was carved up between the European powers.
The reasons for the disappearance of the dinosaurs is an issue still debated among paleontologists and archaeologists. While a number of theories have been advanced as to the cause, the exact reason may never be known.
The most important factor to remember in this discussion is the periods of time involved: thousands of years for some changes and only a few dozen years for others.
The three main factors that lead to the revolutions were: social, political and economical.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "appearance".
One of the factors that led to Elizabeth's downfall was her inability to marry and produce an heir.
One of the less glamorous jobs was that of a scullion, whose primary job was to clean the various medieval kitchens of their feudal castles.
Differences in diet were a key factor in determining whether one lived or died during the Black Death.
No single factor caused the fall of the Roman Empire.
Other factors that might have contributed to the rapid growth of the city include an excellent trade route near it and a fertile river valley.
The main ‘political' factor that prevented the First French Empire from reforming was a centralized system that gave the Emperor, and later the President of the Republic, control over all government functions.
The two most important factors in the victory of the Spanish army over William of Orange's army were that William suffered heavy losses when attacking and that the King made a personal appearance to lead the cavalry against him.
The three main factors that attributed to the decline of the Cholas were the ascendancy of the Vijayanagara Empire, the increase in marauding coastal Arabs and Portuguese and trade.
The most important factor contributing to the Dutch success in controlling local people was their use of Javanese local rulers to maintain control.
The chief factor behind this growth was the rise of a large, well trained and well equipped standing army.
The two main factors leading to the Second World War were German nationalism and Italian Fascism.
One of the most important factors leading to the rejection of the Mayflower Compact was the intense hunger the settlers began to feel in 1623.
The increased availability of land due to the removal of native populations was a factor in the explosion of a population
Of course, it also had a strong effect on prices, since the availability of goods from farms was a major factor in their price.
The most important factor in the fall of the Roman Empire was probably lead poisoning from all the lead pipes in the plumbing.
The main religious factor in this change of attitude towards nature was the rise of Christianity in Europe.
However, several important factors prevented this from happening.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'favorable'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'initiative'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'guerrilla'.
In the mid-nineteenth century, urbanization was one of the most important factors in American life.
Brand loyalty, for example an individual's tendency to prefer a particular make of car, is a factor in predicting buying behavior.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'moral'.
These factors, combined with the draining of much of the marshes in England's Southeast, brought a drastic reduction in malaria in this area.
To achieve that perfect society, you must eliminate all of the factors that would introduce injustice into it.
The large number of Jews emigrating from Europe to the United States was not the only factor in America's immigration history, but it was an important one.


#figurative

It isn't always figurative; sometimes a bear is actually a bear.
The word "smile" in the phrase "bread and butter" is used figuratively to symbolize something that is positive or beneficial.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ontology'.
A figure of speech in which a word or phrase is used for something other than its literal meaning is called a metaphor.
One of my favorite songs is "Yankee Doodle", which is written in a sort of English ‘dog Latin' called "Figurative English"
The word "dog" in the expression "cry over spilled milk" isn't used literally, it's used figuratively.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "enemies".
The first line of the book is "Call me Ishmael". The narrator's name isn't Ishmael, it's just a figure of speech referring to him as a narrator.
The history of art is not just a story of sculpture and painting; it is also a study of the figurative arts.
While we still don't know what ‘figurative' shards of these pottery vessels were used for, the colour range is amazing.
The river, also called the Snake or the Mystic, is a powerful symbol in many religions: Christianity, Judaism and Islam.
The phrase "rule of law" is potentially a strong defense against dictatorship or authoritarian rule, but it has little meaning without a written constitution or a tradition of fairness.
"The little dog is the father of the fondness of travelling and his first journey is to my daughter's lap, his second to Old England and his third to John Bunyan's cottage."
A figurative example of Einstein's work is how it has opened the door to the types of robotic technology that are used in this factory.
Figuratively, you could say they wear their hearts on their sleeves.
It is probably fair to say that in one form or another superstitions have existed among humans since the beginning.
The battle was described as a scramble among a dozen horses,no description at all. The newspapers exaggerated the figurative accomplishments to the skies.
The college borrowed the idea of student numbers being figuratively badges of honor from its older, more established rivals
The idiom to kick someone when he's down is common figurative language.
The word "metaphor" literally means to carry over, but within the context of English it has come to mean a figurative rather than a literal meaning of a word.
The word figurative, from the Latin "figura" meaning "figure" or a "comparison", has been commonly used in English since the 15th century.
The word "courage" is used figuratively in the poem, as it is talking about a man.
Literally means a comparison between two things that aren't similar, it is not used literally.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "government".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "transform".
The first use of the word 'democracy' in English was in around 1290, and here it is used quite figuratively to mean 'equality before the law'.
One of your friends was already sitting in the front row, and he seems to know what you're doing. As you go to sit next to him, he smiles and gives you a thumbs-up.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'interprets'.
However, although the painting has a dark background, the green face of Death and his skeletal figure are decidedly symbolic and so somewhat figurative.
"Never again would a foreign ruler set foot on the sacred soil of France", he wrote using the
The third verse of the song describes the future of the relationship between the singer and his lover. In this verse he uses the word "kingdom" in a figurative sense, when he expresses that his love for her is a "holy"
In a figurative sense, my father forms the foundation of all my personal beliefs.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "factual".
It says that 'the pen is mightier than the sword', which is a way of saying that words can be useful and powerful.
The War of the Spanish Succession was fought over who would succeed to the throne of Spain, which at the time controlled lands around the world, including parts of Italy and south-east France.
"Figurative" is related to "figure," in the sense that it also involves visual representation, and it's not surprising that "a figure" is often part of the "figurative language"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "anecdote".
It says: ‘The term open university has been figuratively applied to any organisation that offers open access to the course materials.
In literature, poetry, or other types of writing where the emphasis is placed on the meaning of words and how they relate to one another, as opposed to simply recording what happened, known as the literal level.
The winged figure of an angel is used figuratively in the poem to emphasize the speaker's feelings of isolation.
His style has a sort of backward emphasis on the last part of a sentence, which creates a feeling of suspense in the mind of the reader, a bit like watching a horror movie.
The title "Father of the American Revolution" is figurative since no person is the sole father of a major historical event.
During the war, he was famous for his generosity towards prisoners, and during it he recited a poem in which he spoke of "the genius of Ireland [rising] like a phoenix from the ashes of her figurative grave".
Another painting shows two men drowning in the ocean, obviously a figure of speech meaning that the two are at a loss in what to do next.
The title of the film was a figurative reference to the drug baron's way of life.
The Sun is often used as a poetic or figurative expression in Spanish.
Wittgenstein's philosophy is a form of "figurative" skepticism and challenges us to give careful thought to the way we really use words.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "intensified".
Paintings during the Byzantine Empire were essentially Catholic, in that most of them depicted religious scenes.
The poem "Daffodils" by Wordsworth is figurative insofar as it describes the flowers as being as happy and cheerful as young people.
It's a poem about an actual journey he took through the Alps, so it's written in the most figurative of terms.
Another figure of speech is the extended metaphor.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "erupt".
Figuratively, this is what's happening to the bakery business: it's being taken over by big conglomerates that have lots of money and are only interested in profit.
In English the word "all" has a very flexible use. It can mean "completely" or it can mean "virtually".
Nazism is a collection of ideas, symbols and practices which were brought together by a charismatic leader.
The use of the term "Dark Ages" to describe this period is somewhat figurative.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'imperative'.
The title "Mad King" was a mere metaphor; the artist deliberately made the king look like he was going insane.
The expression "to turn a blind eye" is a metaphorical reference to an actual 18th-century practice of the English admiral at sea who couldn't deck below to inspect every stash of stolen loot.
The idiom "rule the roost," meaning to have dominance over or be in charge of something, is a figurative use of the word roost, which refers to where chickens sleep at night.
The story is told practically pictorially, without excess detail which would only get in the way of the figurative and moral painting.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "Vietnam".
Figurative language is language that enhances meaning. Writers often use it to make their work more interesting or beautiful.
Figurative language is language that doesn't mean exactly what it says.
The epithet "The Enlightenment" is, however, somewhat of a misnomer, since his writings are not predominantly concerned with the debate between the rationalists and the empiricists which is often known as the "philosophical enlightenment".
Shakespeare's "lightning" in King Lear is a symbolic example of the meaning of this word.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cognitive'.
The river-god represented royal power and the crop fertility for which the ruling classes were both in awe and fear.
The use of a symbol to represent something figuratively rather than literally.
In speech, a simile or metaphor is a figure of speech that states that one thing is another; in other words, it is a comparison between two unlike things using the word like or as.
The first figurative paintings in Western art appeared in southern Italy in the ninth century.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'epitaph'.
The military coup was only a figment of the imagination of the masses.
The expression "to bear a burden" is used figuratively in this poem.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
"The modern world is a zoo," he says
But in fact, as the saying goes, All that glitters is not gold.
The Bible uses the image of a city to symbolize the Church, The Soldiers use tanks and machine guns to defend the city from attack.
The real explosive charges in the figurative mine underneath are the possible solutions to the problem of miscegenation.
As a rhetorical device which compares two things which are very different from each other, but still retaining some similarities. Also, The figures of speech used in the above sentence are, 'em' and 'figurative'.
It's a phrase, an idiom, a metaphor if you will, that has been used for centuries by many people.
The idiom "a drop in the ocean" is a figurative expression which means a small amount.
Figuratively speaking, the mass media is the printing press of the twentieth century.
The phrase the lion's share, which means the biggest or most worthwhile part of something, is a type of idiomatic expression, called a metonym.
We can take the figurative pulse of the city.
Lafcadio Hearn (1850 – 1904), Irish-American author of short stories and novels.
The play is full of figurative language and expressions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'traveller'.
In literature, an adjective is called "metaphor" or "metonym".
The phrase "Westward the course of empire takes its way" is a common figure of speech that means the United States steadily progressed from east to west.
The painters began the class by discussing the figurative elements in Rembrandt's work.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "thought".
The idiom "the writing is on the wall" is a metaphorical phrase which means that trouble is coming.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "rebellion".
I had a "metaphorical" mountain to climb.
In fact, the opposite is true: A writer is extraordinarily freed by a lack of responsibility to the truth.
When a politician receives more than fifty thousand votes and loses, he is frequently said to have 'lost' despite his victory, because the support he rece
The earliest writings of the Hindus make great use of figurative language, in which words are used as if they were objects.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ostracized'.
Figurative language is language that is not literal.


#foremost

The foremost example of a fractal is the Möbius strip, which is a flat, one-sided surface with the unusual property that it has only one edge and only one surface.
He is widely viewed as the foremost expert in his field.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'epitome'.
Darwin's "Origin of Species" is among the most important and influential works of science ever written, and it remains a landmark publication in biology to this day.
The Taj Mahal is a mausoleum located in Agra, India and was built by Mughal Emperor, Shah Jahan to house and honor the memory of his beloved wife, Mumtaz.
The composer who was chiefly responsible for writing the operas Turandot and Trovatore, is also one of the most widely sung composers in the opera houses of the world today.
Professor: The First Battle of Panipat was fought between the emerging Islamic Sultanates and the Hindu kingdoms principally located in what is now modern-day India.
The discovery of King Richard III's remains has helped shake off the legend surrounding his medieval reign, and proved that he was a ruthless leader whose actions were sometimes incompetent and misguided but were never dented by personal failings.
Seminal mythologist Joseph Campbell was the foremost disciple of the theories of German philosopher and biologist Ernst Haeckel.
Friedrich Nietzsche is one of the foremost critical thinkers in modern European philosophy.
Nursing, as we know it today, can be traced back to the mid-19th century, when a group of dedicate
Singer is one of the foremost legal scholars in the United States.
The British Government's most outspoken condemnation of the terror attacks was made by the Home Secretary, who stated that this was a matter of foremost concern.
The explorers' descriptions are inva
The French 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen was one of the most important documents of the French Revolution.
The Taj Mahal is one of India's most popular tourist sites and is a fine example of Mughal architecture and one of the world's foremost examples of tombs from the Islamic section.
The Taj Majal is one of the world's foremost examples of Mughal architecture and epitomises the beauty and excess of Emperor Shah Jahan's court.
Relativity is one of the most important scientific theories of all time. Albert Einstein's "special theory of relativity" and "general theory of relativity"
A prominent Christian and foremost biblical scholar of his era, Eusebius was instrumental in shaping the development of early Christianity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "defeat".
You thank the professor and end your turn.
The Italian physicist was one of the foremost scientists of the twentieth century.
Carl von Clausewitz was a 19th-century Prussian general, military theorist and the foremost diplomat of his day.
The Royal Shakespeare Company is the foremost theatre company in the English-speaking world.
And then there's Mike, who is not only the most important person on your campus but the foremost expert on the family of red Panda Bears living just outside the city.
Jesus' main concern during his ministry was to criticize the hypocritical religious leaders of the day, the foremost of whom was John the Baptist.
The destruction of the Aztec Empire in 1521 was one of the greatest events in history.
Copenhagen, the Danish capital, is the Scandinavian region's foremost city.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton was the foremost leader of the early feminist movement in the US, and campaigned for women's voting rights.
Haydn's greatness as a composer is foremost in his instrumental music rather than his songs and operas, which were by no means inferior.
Unsurprisingly, the main focus of the new school is the arts, and the foremost lecture on music is given by an expert on Chopin.
During the first half of the twentieth century, France gave asylum to the filmmaker Charlie Chaplin chiefly because it was a progressive nation that didn't like the implication of his
Galileo is considered one of the foremost figures in the history of observational astronomy.
The most reputable studies of this chemical have been carried out by the Centre forForemost Research in aural science Education, which is funded by both the European and American governments.
The purpose of the book, De Revolutionibus, was to explain the work of the 'foremost' astronomer of the ancient world, Ptolemy.
The Dutch writer Desiderius Erasmus was a theologian, a humanist and a foremost intellect of the northern Renaissance.
But it's her acting skills that have made her one of the most successful and in-demand Hollywood stars, and one of the foremost feminist role models of our time.
The city is most famous as the home of the painter Rembrandt van Rijn, and for its gorgeous 17th and 18th century buildings.
He is one of the foremost in his field, and there is little doubt that he will be awarded a Nobel prize for his efforts in the next few years.
c) The new library is many things, a centre of learning for example, but above all it is a tribute to the man who made it all happen, our university's most illustrious graduate Robert Redford.
And most of the important scientists were Dutch, foremost among them the great chemist and physician Hermann Boerhaave.
The University of California is the most prominent centre of research on Aids.
The instruments aboard the space probe will pass by the asteroid at a distance of 3,000 miles - just at the edge of its gravitational pull - and will use the attraction of Jupiter to fling themselves around the sun.
The book is primarily the work of one person, a Chinese scientist.
The pilot, an Italian man named Ulivo Barsanti, was one of the foremost aviation pioneers.
The American Whig Party was one of the United States' foremost political parties from 1833 until 1855.
The dancer Rudolf Nureyev was one of the 20th century's foremost artists.
Captain James Cook was a 18th-century British explorer who came to be regarded by some as the greatest seaman of his era, and is still regarded as one of the foremost explorers ever.
His most important invention is considered to be the microscope, which was one of the greatest inventions in medical history and made him foremost among biology as a scientist.
The astronomer Tycho Brahe was the foremost European scientist of the 16th century.
The Turin Shroud, which some believe to be the burial shroud of Jesus Christ, is kept in Turin, a Italian city with a foremost history of making and manufacturing cloth.
The issues of the compass and of mapping a continent were solved centuries ago, but the use of a sextant on a moving ship was an extremely practical problem that was still foremost in the minds of mariners.
The use of a computer-generated questionnaire was intended to eliminate the possibility of human error in compiling the census and inform the public of their foremost interests.
But Earth's nearest neighbor is also the smallest: just one among more than a dozen moons, all in all, that circle Saturn.
The University of Paris was the most foremost university in Europe during the Middle Ages.
The candidate's foremost contribution to the field of microbiology is his discovery of new strains of antibiotics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reputation".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "creators".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "principality".
After assembling several clues and completing the crossword, you manage to guess the word that was apparently so hard for others: "DEVESTATION".
The class laughs.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "round".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "result".
The students applaud you.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "process".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "monarchy".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "economic".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "inevitable".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "petty".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "methodology".
The professor unlocks the door and you both enter the room.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "beside".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "effect".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "access".
Encouraged by your progress, you eventually approach the professor to point out that in the last round you were allowed to ask for two sentences. Professor: That is correct. In this round you may request up to five sentences.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "origins".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "popular".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "assemble".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "secularization".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "secularization".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "conflict".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "assemble".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "manifest".
You ask the professor for a sentence that contains the word "hostilities".
The correct answer is option D).
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "opinion".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "intensified".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "into".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "into".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "temporary".
Professor: Now that you know how to identify different sentence types within a single paragraph, we're going to go a step further and show you how the paragraphs in another source might be linked together.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "subsequent".


#former

Former US first lady Barbara Bush died on April 17, 2018 at the age of 92.
The United States considers a coup which results in the death of the leader as still being valid, but a coup that removes the leader and puts someone else in power is considered to be the "former" leader.
The former Roman Empire was the medieval continuation of the Roman State.
Until he came to power, Hitler had lived quietly in a former boarding house in Munich.
The former colonies were largely agricultural societies with a limited number of cities.
The contemporary usage of the word ‘science' implies a former distinction between ‘arts' and ‘sciences'.
One of the former leaders has been living in exile in Cuba for twenty-five years. She is now seventy-three years old, but was very popular during her rule.
The former colonies were very different from the mother country.
The typical middle-class American lifestyle is very different from that of the current upper classes, the former being primarily concerned with convenience and the latter primarily concerned with display.
The former colonies, still bound by their common language, had not yet splintered into separate nations.
One particular branch, the Iroquoians, located mainly in what is now the southern part of Ontario, were devastated by exposure to diseases unintentionally brought over from Europe, especially by the 'Fur Trade' and with them the 'Iro
By the mid-seventeenth century, the Dutch Republic was a major naval and commercial power, a former mercenary for the English, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish kings.
In a free-market economy, oil exports are at a premium. Every nation needs them to power their vehicles, planes and other modes of transport.
The movement of peoples from the former Soviet republics to Finland has been more towards rural parts of the country in search of work.
The most important of these former Catholic countries was Poland.
Although all the other institutions of the government were, in theory, subservient to the legislature and had to follow the laws it made, the judiciary was in a sense equal to the legislature.
The former diplomat claimed that his conscience prevents him from revealing his countries secrets.
"Former" (adjective) means the preceding one; the one that was before.
The main trend of thought that opposed the existence of extinction events was that of gradualism, the idea that evolutionary change is slow and steady.
However, the development of effective contraceptives, such as the birth-control pill, has given women the possibility of choosing when to have children, and forgoes the necessity of having a period every month.
Professor: During his time at the university he published a number of articles in prominent linguistics journals.
The professionalization of the military in Prussia was largely influenced by the great victories obtained by the Prussian army during the French-imperial war.
While some regions such as England and Holland rejected the Continental System, others such as Denmark, the former would have great disadvantage in trade.
During the former period, a strong ruler would sometimes manage to temporarily turn back time, and the center of power would once more be Baghdad.
The immediate former president of the university will be giving the speech.
In the world of microbiology, many species are often placed together in 'complexes', groups of closely inter-related species that have undergone many evolutionary changes from their common ancestors.
The most important battles of the Middle Ages were fought primarily between the Arabs and the Byzantines.
They were ruled by the Kingdom of France, and before that they had been ruled by the Kingdom of England.
Before the Civil War most American Indians lived in
In 1945 the former League of Nations section was divided into two new bodies: the United Nations and the International Court of Justice.
In the former communist nations of eastern Europe, life expectancies are no higher than they were before the advent of modern medicine.
The two most important issues facing the former Chancellor Helmut Kohl when he took office in 1982 were the growing disparity between the East and West German economies, and the need to station medium-range nuclear missiles in Germany.
The ruin of the Aztec empire was primarily due to population problems.
The former secretary of state will be remembered for his Casa Blanca scandal in which it was discovered that he had accepted large payments from the Mexican government.
The only way to prevent climate change causing extinction is to use the Galileo directive and divert an asteroid into the path of the oncoming disasters.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'consequence'
Indeed, it was during this period that "modern humans", also called "Cro-Magnons", first began appearing in the fossil record.
The former Roman Kingdom was in the geographical region of Italy.
The most important domestic issue facing presidents of the United States in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries was the rise of industrialization.
It was not until the latter half of his reign, after the English Civil War, that England became the first country to establish a care system for the mentally ill.
The formal language of mathematics arose primarily as a way for logicians to communicate their ideas.
During the Cold War, the People's Republic of China had an antagonistic relationship with the former Soviet Union, at times verging on all-out hostilities.
The Aztec Empire fell to Spanish Conquistadors in 1521, and the Inca Empire fell to them in 1533; Mexico was ruled by Spain for over 300 years and Peru for about 200.
South Australia adopted a former penal colony model for its first prison at Port Arthur.
It was World War II, the most devastating war in human history.
The former symbol of the French monarchy, the fleur-de-lis, forms the centerpiece of the modern flag.
The many advances in transportation and communication were made possible by the exploitation of coal and the steam engine, the latter being a former dot on the landscape that was powered by coal.
In the fourteenth century, a series of former small German kingdoms unified into the Holy Roman Empire ruled from Austria.
The concept of territorial concessions by the British and the later establishment of a Jewish homeland in Palestine had been the policy of the former Ottoman authorities, but was opposed by most Arab nationalists.
The ancient religions of the Middle East have had a major impact on the former colonies of Britain and France, such as those in North America.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'classmate'.
The former prime minister was sentenced to two years in prison for his part in the scandal.
The Black Death drastically changed European society, mainly through the death of a large part of the population. The impoverished lower classes were hardest hit; it is believed that in England as much as 70% of the population died.
The U.S. and Britain often disagreed over former colonies like Cuba and the Philippines, which wanted to become independent nations.
The problem is that the symptoms used to diagnose mental illness are not objective. They are subjective opinions probably coloured by the practitioner's own personal view on what makes someone mentally ill.
The workers united in organizations called unions, which became more common as the Industrial Revolution gathered pace, in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
Many of its former miners and steelworkers have lost their pensions.
They have been hired as the permanent academic staff and are glad to be rid of the money worries that were a constant source of worry for them while they held the positions of ‘former' temporary professors.
The former United States of America were not so united as their name suggested.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "important".
The thirty years' war was fought primarily in central Europe between 1618 and 1648.
The year 1871 saw the unification of the former kingdoms of Prussia and Bavaria as the German Empire. The Empire was ruled by Emperor Wilhelm I, who was also the King of Prussia.
The republic's former parliament has been replaced with a council made up of thirty hand-picked GBR officials.
When the British and the Boers clashed, however, the British press were far less critical than they had been of the concentration camps during the Boer War, implying that this time it was the Boers' own fault.
The country in which I was raised was under the rule of a former military dictator.
The former president was recently refused entry into the country of his birth.
In the former Yugoslavia under the Communists, there were serious shortages of goods and necessities.
The former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina has been a site of religious strife for nearly 1,000 years and is currently seeking independence
Zhou's former student led his own army into battle against his teacher, but was eventually defeated.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'oppressive'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'socialist'.
In the eighteenth century, the Kingdom of Spain still claimed territory in Italy and aspired to control the Mediterranean by occupying coastal Tunisia.
The former noble houses of France played an important role in the early years of the French Revolution.
Hegel's ideas about the former state being a totalitarian one have been disputed by many theorists since.
You ask him for a sentence containing 'vanguard'.
The former prime minister of the United Kingdom, David Cameron
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'moral'.
The Normans were descended from the Vikings, and at first many of them continued to plunder on England's coast, but finally the Norman leaders decided to were the pirates, and instead began to slowly gain control over several English lands.
At reeftown.com, Tomi was becoming a soccer fan, joining message boards to argue about the relative merits of former Brazilian greats Ronaldo and Bebeto.
The former prime minister of Australia, Gough Whitlam, was dismissed in controversial circumstances.
The former allows the government to assess a penalty on income taxes for those who don't comply with its minimum standards of health care.
The former is native to Asia, while the latter is a native of North America.
The reforms of the nineteenth century are usually divided into three categories: the first Reform Act of 1832, the second of 1867 and the third of 1885, called the great Reform Bill.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'the British'.
Not all former Protestant Churches split primarily over the issue of slavery; some churches split over the issue of secession,
The former Prime Minister was the main force behind the War of the Spanish Succession.
The majority of the town's former Jewish residents soon left in search of less hostile surroundings and economic opportunities.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'reasons'.
The former royal palace of the Kingdom of France was the Palace of Versailles, which had been built in the seventeenth century.
In 1806, the Kingdom of Bavaria became a "former" province of the Empire.
The Norman kings founded a number of important institutions, including the Exchequer and the medieval English legal system.
The ancient and now defunct Office of Film Censorship was replaced by the more liberal and less powerful former Office of Film and Literature Classification.
After this there are no more contributions and the round ends. It is now the Winter of Year 2.
And Norway's then-Socialist government refused to extradite any of the former communist officials.
The passing of the Ten-Hour bill had a great effect on the working classes. Formerly, they had been obliged to work for ten hours a day, often seven days a week.
The former mayor had been on the take for as long as anyone could remember.
Until the former president's son was caught in a crossfire between warring factions, the country had been on the decline.
The Lusitania was a British ocean liner that the Germans sank in World War I, and was arguably the event that most heavily influenced the United States' decision to enter World War I.
In more traditional societies women were often valued primarily as childbearers.
The former KKK leader spoke on the main issue of American politics, race.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "by".
By 1525, many Spanish cities had become indistinguishable from Islamic cities, with their grand mosques, their fountains and gardens.


#formulate

The theory of relativity was formulated primarily by Albert Einstein in the last decade of the nineteenth century.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'orientation'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elaborate'.
The major advantage of this theory was that it required no elaborate mechanisms, such as the Big Bang or Black Holes, to explain the origin of the universe.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'existence'.
The governments of liberal democracies still have to formulate a workable policy on the incorporation of ethnic and religious minorities into the social and political order.
Empiricists attempt to formulate laws using only experience or understanding and not abstract conceptions of any kind.
We have already had to formulate a suitable candidate to send to the Island of Filth.
The government will formulate a new policy on teaching math when the new research paper comes out next year.
In his retirement speech he told the assembly that he felt the need to formulate his thoughts about the society we lived in.
It was not until the Enlightenment right at the end of the 17th century that scientific views such as these were formulated.
It was long believed that light always takes a fixed time to travel from its source to the observer, no matter how far the source is, but in 1675 the astronomer Ole Rømer showed that this was not the case and formulated a mathematical
It was only with the help of the naturalist Charles Darwin that Thomas Huxley was able to formulate a strong argument for evolution.
However, though some scholars prepared manuscripts and summaries of knowledge on particular subjects, it was not at all common at this time to formulate a new theory without a basis in already established work.
The best way to formulate a solution is to plan ahead.
A virus is the sort of thing that can't really be said to be alive as it can't do anything on its own. The only reason the astronauts concerned are not dead is because they formulated a plan to deal with such a situation.
The social contract theory was first formulated by a German philosopher, John Somerville.
The creationists formulated a counter idea: intelligent design.
Theorists try to formulate a model, or 'map', that describes an area of the brain, its functions and processes.
The new theory was that light consisted of waves and that these waves could be formulated mathematically.
Because the reader is given no information about the motivation or psychology of any of the characters, it cannot be certain what they intended by their act; hence, the reader has to formulate his or her own ideas about the matter--the process of reading
You ask the professor for a sentence beginning with "Despite".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "side".
It was mostly the Church that had the resources to formulate an adequate response.
The ability to formulate questions and hypotheses is a vital part of any scientist's job.
"Theory is the formulation of something in words or general laws that explain existing facts and occurrences."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "athletics".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "augmented".
The new weapons technology had radically augmented their killing power.
The problem was that governments were having a hard time coming up with solutions to the energy crisis.
The Romans formulated their laws for the conquered inhabitants of Britain, and also influenced the Germans.
Neuroscientists will have to formulate a new theory about how the brain functions.
The nurses had formulated the plan because they knew that Harold was too timid to call an ambulance without a medical reason.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'early'.
He believed he had formulated a plan that would guarantee his election.
The industrialisation of many economies led to a shift in the source of power from aristocracies to middle classes. This caused a lot of social changes, as aristocracies had been the primary formulators of policy for centuries.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "function".
The theories of the Philosopher Kings aren't clearly formulated or explained in writing, instead they are acted out in practice, with the king's decisions layed out in edicts.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "destructive".
He was brilliant in class, but in terms of recall he needed to formulate his thoughts before speaking.
In the twelfth century, religious reformers began to formulate the first systematic criticisms of clerical ignorance and corruption.
Nurses are expected to formulate care plans with patients or their families.
This happened mainly because of the work done by university professors who formulated new theories and ways of looking at and understanding society.
The main problem for social reformers of America during the Gilded Age was how to formulate a coherent response to industrialization.
Empirical evidence needs to be gathered and interpreted before a hypothesis can be formulated.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
The theory is particularly difficult to formulate if one adheres to the view that the Universe has only existed for 15 billion years or so.
They were trying to formulate an effective way to help people learn.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'transportation'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'formidable'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'independence'.
The English Bill of Rights granted religious freedom to Protestants, while maintaining Catholicism as an offense punishable by death.
I have a formula for you: c2 = x2 + 2x − 22.
One of the main reasons why many states were reluctant to formulate a bill of rights was that they disagreed as to what rights should be included.
Darwin formulated a theory of evolution in the nineteenth century.
Mr. Hawking formulated a set of simple rules governing the behavior of the cosmos that could be understood by anyone.
After WW2 attempts were made to formulate a treaty to prevent future acts of aggression.
Even though their revolutionary ideas would forever change the course of human history as we know it, it wasn't until a few years later that Charles formulated the most influential political idea of modern times...
One of your students has formulated a theory to allow the dragons ling to be understood by the human mind.
I was hoping you would be able to help me with this question!
He was a founder member of the Fabian society and was mainly responsible for developing its policies on medical care, education and employment. (For example, the idea that the state should provide these services free of charge to everyone.
The problems which had to be considered when formulating the attitude of the Catholic Church towards the European state included the following:
Brezhnev and the rest of the Soviet leadership, anxious to achieve a sophisticated image and formulate a new ideology based on economic well-being rather than ideological purity.
The business community had formulated the Industrial Revolution to increase profit.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'science'.
At first, he was a brilliant student and learned to formulate new theories.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fossil'.
Most vertebrate fossils are the bones or teeth of animals preserved in ice or sedimentary rock.
You: Oh that's OK, if you're too busy I can come back at another time.
Charles Darwin formulated the theory of natural selection which explains that species evolve by nature, a process which allows any species to genetically adapt to their environment.
One of the secrets of their success was their ability to formulate general guidelines that could be applied to specific situations.
Instead of leaving their options open and refraining from acting, the fascists sought to 'formulate' a new philosophy and political system to take its place.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "horrified".
Everyone I met when I was out there, soldiers, civilians, they were all horrified by what they'd seen on the battlefield.
The problem with this idea is that it is not easy to formulate a hypothesis that explains the revolutionary upheavals in terms of material gain.
The ideas that the existentialists were trying to formulate in the 1940s would continue to have a huge effect on philosophy and issues in general until today.
The American government formulated a plan to pay off the nation's $16 trillion debt over a period of ten years, while cutting spending.
The United States' constitution was a brilliant formulation for the times in which it was written.
The League of Nations was an international organization formulated to help prevent war.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'proliferation'.
The politician needed to formulate a viable economic policy.
The extent to which the ideas of Thomas Hobbes affected the philosophers of the Age of Enlightenment, such as John Locke, will be the focus of my future work.
The most important theories that are used in the formulation of my theory are the ideas of Sigmund Freud and Charles Darwin.
The gender roles are more or less clearly defined and their duty is to first and foremost to family.
The Big Bang theory is formulated on the basis of evidence that the universe expanded from an initial state of infinite density.
It is not clear what the IRA hopes to achieve by bombing, and it is even less clear what they hope to achieve by bombing in England.
The team of economists had a very difficult time in trying to formulate a suitable response to the crisis.
He formulated a theory on the changes of the population's needs, and how the government should react to such changes
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "examine".
The problem of how to formulate a working relationship between the different types of primary schools was the first major issue of educational policy that the government had to address.
Einstein had a wild imagination. He thought up many of his theories while lying in bed or walking to work.
The term "Empire" had not originally been a pejorative word, in fact it was initially used to describe the Roman Republic.
"We formulate our deepest hopes and dreams in the poetry that we write, whether we are consciously aware of it or not."
But it was the policy initiated by Lucas that Lindsay found most difficult to formulate or even describe.
However, while they were busy formulating this plan, a curious thing happened.
Putting a stop to people
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "gathered".
help him formulate and record his theories.
The difficulty in formulating such a model is that there has never been a true biological democracy.
The experimenter then tried to formulate a set of instructions that would enable a person to complete the maze without touching the walls.
Eventually, it was decided to formulate a plan of action and several proposals were put forward.
The first theory of evolution was formulated primarily by a close examination of wildlife and fossils.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'squad'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "inaugurate".
The early socialists formulated an elaborate tax system that would fund the government and
He didn't have to formulate his own ideas about where to go next.
He made a detailed plan for the invasion, while after years of preparation he formulated his grand strategy during the Second World War


#foster

I'm afraid I can't help you. I have to go. Goodbye.
The new city was an experiment in the Rousseauvillian concept of a society whose government would foster the common good rather than individual accomplishment.
She started a foster home, where she cared for several children from different backgrounds.
It was already too late to foster any sympathy for the devil, and the Church had reasons of her own for wishing to fill the last hours of this man with despair.
The fear was that if she remained as dictator for too long, she might well foster a cult of personality.
The aim of the peace process is to foster goodwill between the many warring parties in the region.
He was the US Secretary of State under the Nixon administration and central to the fostering of detente between the US and the USSR.
Some governments have initiated policies to foster innovation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ethical'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'light'.
In 1666, Charles and his older brother, the future King James II, were fostered in the house of Lord Aubigny.
Stockhausen's later works, such as "Klang" and "Inori"
The conflict, however, although it had gone through several phases, did not really begin until the invasion of the Normans in 1066.
Jacob Levine has been a foster child who had to move many times and had many social workers
Dr. Rebecca Dean's husband died of a heart attack while she was pregnant with their second child.
The Pahlavis were the first family of Iran, and have been called the foster family of the Shah.
The nursery, where infant mortality was very high, was the heart of any workhouse.
As a committed communist, he had the opportunity to foster his beliefs in the children under his charge.
The most disturbing fact we have to face is that no drug we have is very effective in the treatment of schizophrenia.
Stalin's ruthless methods, which included the encouragement of fear and suspicion in Soviet society through a program of
Nothing happened.
Queen Elizabeth I tried to foster trade by sending explorers, such as Sir Francis Drake, on missions of discovery to the New World.
While liberals in Britain supported the existence of an established Church, they were nonetheless strong supporters of religious freedom. It was feared that an official Church would foster intolerance and prejudice.
Why is it so hard for you to foster the same kind of mutual respect and team spirit the Carnegies, Lincolns, Churchills and Stalins had?
Furthermore, the parents often foster incorrect language habits in their children.
I agree that the ability to foster a supportive environment for all students would be an ideal situation to strive for.
"We must foster love, unity, and understanding among all people in the world," Dr. King said during his speech.
The first national unions were set up to foster a sense of solidarity among workers.
He took every opportunity to foster the illusion that he was a truly magical being.
During WWI, mutual suspicion between the Romanians, Hungarians, Germans and Russians along with a lack of any strong desire to fight side by side with one another fostered a spirit of independence in Transylvania.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fantasy'.
And he had the support of many of the Norman aristocracy in his campaign to foster anti-Saxon sentiment.
The saying that "children should be seen and not heard" did a lot to foster this idea of passivity in children.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'once'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'result'.
His most important work was the fostering of mathematics and science through his educational reforms.
Walt's father was a socialist who believed that the key to fostering social change was through education.
Despite its successes, the League's very success in fostering peace also made it an easy target for those who wanted to dismantle it.
The radicals wanted to foster revolution in Britain's North American Colonies.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "ideology".
Mussolini's 'corporate state' was an attempt to 'foster' the spirit of nationalism.
The policy of fostering nationalism is an attempt to draw the boundaries of Iraq's regions in a way that will enhance cooperation among the country's many ethnic and religious groups.
The Church was deeply implicated in the reign of terror during the French Revolution and Counter-Revolution.
The plan was to foster peace and cooperation between the two races.
Some people suggest that one of the reasons for the American Civil War was to some extent it was a battle between industrialists who wanted to foster national unity and southern plantation owners who wanted to industrialize.
While Stalin's industrialization policies have been criticized for their inefficiency and lack of concern for human cost, the results were undeniable: while capitalism was responsible for building up cities like New York and London, the Soviet Union's cities, such as Moscow
The aim was to foster a new and open-minded spirit of tolerance.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'scholar'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'believe'.
I believe an education is important.
It is easy to see how financial incentives foster dependency: people have little incentive to work hard if they can receive the same salary by doing little.
The only way that African economies are going to develop is if wealthy countries foster the growth of these industries there.
Most of the scientific advances in the last century were made by a relatively small group of people called the "revolutionary elite".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'northern'.
The war was concentrated mainly in the home sphere of the Soviets and the geography of central Europe. Northern and eastern, coastal areas were less affected.
The revolution of 1848 failed to accomplish its goals but still helped foster a new sense of nationalism among each nation.
The conflict between China and had been a major cause of increasing tension between the USSR and China in the years leading up to the Sino-Soviet split of 1961.
The main reason for the failure of the Weimar Republic was that there was a very weak social climate, which made it difficult to foster any sense of nationhood.
Unfortunately, most people in the medical profession don't foster a spirit of independence in patients.
The studies suggest that human attitudes can foster the spread of disease.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "essential".
Children who grow up in poverty tend to have lower IQs than their classmates and are more likely to suffer from mental illness and to underperform at school.
Slight changes in the orbits of their parent stars, called red dwarfs, could also cause climate variations that would severely affect life on any orbiting planets.
The period between the end of the American Civil War and the start of the 20th century, when African-Americans were given more rights, is known as the Reconstruction era.
Presbyterianism encourages the fostering of a personal relationship with Jesus Christ.
She has a lot of respect for her mother who she feels is the main person who helped her father in his successful career as a judge.
But when the free market is in question, New York's liberal politicians are at their worst.
It is the ability of a molecule to foster the growth of ice crystals in the atmosphere.
The historian's main task should be to foster a consciousness of the past in the minds of students and the public.
The duty of the Christian churches in the Middle Ages was not to foster critical thought, but to indoctrinate and support the state.
So these are the reasons why it is in America's interest to foster good relations with Pakistan.
One of the main weaknesses of the League of Nations, the body set up to foster international cooperation after the First World War, was that it depended on the goodwill of its most powerful members.
Mother's death had a devastating effect on Margaret. This event more than anything else fostering her lifelong love of books.
In the period of the 1920s and 1930s, a lot of positive things were taking place in America; the arts were flourishing with writers such as John Steinbeck and musicians such as Aaron Copeland
In the twentieth century, the rise of dictators and various tyrants fostered an opposition to big government and top-down societies.
The 19th-century novelist expected his readers to 'foster' the idea that a life of pleasure was far more desirable than a life of toil.
The importance of early childhood experiences in fostering intellectual growth is a tenet of several school programs.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "original".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "state".
The Indian caste system is an elaborate hierarchy that fosters fierce competition.
Machiavelli believed that an effective leader needed to foster obedience, unity, centralization and legitimacy.
It was only by fostering close relationships with local warlords that the foreign traders
In the Republic, Plato uses the word industry on several occasions in a positive context, fostering an attitude of "good for society and the common good".
Still, from his earliest youth Franklin had fostered a steadfast ambition to become a great man.
Experts extolled the "Foster parenting" program as an innovative way to provide desperately needed family homes for children in government custody.
The discovery of electrons led to the development of new types of medical imaging known as X-ray machines which could take pictures called 'radiographs' or 'x-rays' and with these they could 'see inside' objects such as people
The most common diseases in the 19th century that you "foster" by living a clean life.
It is difficult to foster a feeling of nationalism in citizens who feel they belong to the world and have no need for patriotic feelings.
Bismarck's goal in creating the welfare state system was to foster a class of bureaucrats that would help govern.
She wanted to foster a spirit of forgiveness in her children.
Foster was also one of the leaders of the Loyalists, Americans who supported King George III and believed that the colonies should remain under British rule.
Unfortunately he was succeeded by his equally incompetent brother, who fostered divisions in the royal family and invited the rule of aristocratic families in what had previously been a monarchy.
The above exercise has a longish answer and a shortish answer.
His call for a national furor over subversion was not only hypocritical given that he himself had been caught subverting Congress, but also futile since his word alone couldn't foster such an effort.
However, the medieval church's establishment of groupings of religious houses in each country fostered monasticism on a larger scale than ever before.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'realm'.
Stickleback parents foster, or rear, the young of their relatives if their own have died.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "encompasses".
The current foster care system does not suit all children and some are often severely neglected in the process.
Instead of helping the global economy, governments chose to foster their own economies.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'modern'.
"(As of yet) Family life did not foster independent thinking."
Professor: The basis of the entire communist philosophy is to foster a greater sense of community and to prevent the establishment of a class system in which some people are born into wealth and power while others are forced to live in poverty and servitude.
The Islamic religion has traditionally been hostile to homosexuality, but the Persian Sufis fostered a more tolerant view of homosexuals.
The UN's fostering of closer ties with the League led to a change in its stance.
