

#abbreviate

You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'qualification'.
The abbreviation of many words, including Latin words, in English is conventionally written with a period after it.
But that's not what one would do if one were abreviating the word.
The tests are designed to measure you on various abilities including short-term memory, prioritizing information and abbreviating the written word.
I'm not sure if the word you're looking for is in there, but it contains 'abbreviate'.
The smallest meaningful unit of an idea, concept or entity is that idea's shortest possible abbreviation.
This hasty genealogy of our alphabet is to enable us to dispense with all unnecessary steps in the progress of abbreviating.
From now on we shall represent the position of armies by abreviations rather than their full names.
The tendency in some post-modern writing to avoid long sentences and complex syntax in favour of short, sometimes single, words, is part of a general trend to brevity in modern life, which can be seen also in the use of text-
In the period between the end of the War of the Spanish Succession
In the fifth century, the Roman Empire was still vast; the "City of God" was just a pipsqueak in comparison. Yet Rome had become corrupt and weak.
The information that is lost in the process of abbreviating a message can be made up for if the people involved already share knowledge between themselves.
Since "prot" is an abbreviation for "proto-" you can assume that this is what you're looking for.
The word "Mississippi" can be abbreviated as "MS".
The last sentence from paragraph 4 could be made shorter.
It is only after the age of twenty that one can really begin to consider whether to start a family and abbreviate their career.
The name Sanskrit is believed to be a shortened form of "shadows in the clouds", a reference to the many gods who are believed to make up the original Indo-European pantheon.
The French Revolution attempted to create a faster and more responsive government. To this end, it was divided into three parts.
The compromise of 1877, in which the Conservatives ended their fight against the Prime Minister and the liberals in exchange for the opportunity to abbreviate the scope of the vote (which now included all males)
Doctors tend to use a number of abbreviations and acronyms in their writing, which can lead to problems for people unfamiliar with them.
The church's vast temporal power was curtailed and its finances tightly audited by a government board.
The Oxford English Dictionary is the most widely used and the most authoritative dictionary of the English language, and some might argue that its ongoing revisions incorporate a process not unlike the transcription of history.
The Middle Ages is often abbreviated to ME for Medieval Era.
In more recent years the original theory has been abbreviated even further by stating that birth order doesn't give great men their personalities.
The Bible, which was once almost the only literature in English for centuries, has now been largely replaced by magazines and TV shows.
The various policies and laws that the Government passes are occasionally so complex that they can't be understood by the average citizen. Thus, the politicians choose to abridge them, or shorten them.
The new "Stratum IIb" period is a shorter one, and archaeologists have a hard time abbreviating it to fit on labels for display.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'amendment'.
The abbreviation for the Latin phrase "Ad Maiorem Dei Gloriam" means "to the greater glory of God."
There is a letter from King George advising that the United States agree to an early end to the war in order to abbreviate the casualty lists.
At the beginning of the nineteenth century, the European liberal movements attempted to abbreviate the long period of reforms they were attempting to achieve.
In the original German, "Dolchstoss" was a poetic expression that has been abbreviated to a single word in the English translation.
It is also generally agreed that if some sort of abbreviations had been used then the importance of the various documents might have been clearer.
In fact, the Catholic Church had a go at trying to prevent the publication of many books at the time.
The length of legal proceedings was reduced and the old tripartite forms were replaced by briefer and simpler abbreviated forms, which were largely formulaic.
"What would you like me to shorten this message to?" the telegraph operator asked.
In his later years, Louis Philippe felt he was just an honorary figurehead, and he desired to abbreviate his title by dropping the 'ph'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ascertain'.
It may be possible to abbreviate the whole process of getting a drug onto the market.
Brahimi's statements are part of a general trend of the Arab states trying to abridge their usual, painful rhetoric and say exactly what they wish in relation to Iraq.
It's difficult to believe, but the thing which is probably most lacking in all English writing is the lack of brevity.
Presidents have sometimes shortened the length of time their vice-presidents serve, so that they won't have to replace an old and knowledgeable vice-president with a new one.
But it would be a mistake to believe that these devices have actually abbreviated our lives.
The Sumerian language is a language isolate; it has no known relatives, and there is no evidence that its vocabulary and syntax have ever been shortened.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reconcile".
It is often difficult to accurately abbreviate a long word while still retaining the original meaning.
One of the major aims of the treatise "Beowulf" is to use a long series of adventures and detail an entire history so that it can be abbreviated into a few pages.
The people of the seventeenth century were eager to abbreviate and simplify their language and even the spelling was modified to achieve this.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unanimous'.
The widely used HIV virus was first discovered in the 1980s but wasn't given its controversial abbreviation until the 1990s.
The Concise Oxford English Dictionary contains over 200000 words
To prevent the government from collapsing, President Havel was forced to shorten his term from five years to two.
Boehme's theology perhaps can be thought of as an attempt to abbreviate the relationship between man and God, as opposed to traditional theistic views of God which often seem to expand it unnecessarily.
"Life is too important to be taken seriously." is one his most famous sayings, and is a clever way of abbreviating the idea that life should not be a serious burden.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideologue'.
The French alphabet o
The two documents will be known as the DC and will stand for declaration of consent and DC for declaration of continuation.
The book's aim is to "abbreviate the fullness of time, and to let you hear especially the last hour sound".
However, not all the soldiers at Fort St. Louis were scoundrels. Some of them assisted Marguerite in abbreviating her thirteen-month ordeal.
Choose your words wisely. You only have three lifelines left, and you may need all of them later in the game.
The process by which Ian became self-aware and began to communicate was a lengthy one, but the decision to try to abbreviate it was made relatively quickly.
It is frequently in Latin for all words and parts of words (as well as some grammatical markers) have been abbreviated.
She gave her new boyfriend my email password and now he's going to abbreviate my name on facebook to his nickname for me!
Emancipate means ‘to grant freedom'; abbreviate means ‘to make shorter'.
The Great Depression was an economic disaster that saw the collapse of the world's leading economies. It began in most countries between 1929 and 1933, when The United States economy collapsed.
The Civil War led to the emergency of a new constitution, which had to be ratified by the former Confederate states to abbreviate hostilities between them and the Union.
His lectures tended to be long and tedious, so he set a rule for himself: he would give a reward if someone asked him to abbreviate his words.
Technological advances such as electronic mail and especially the Internet have abbreviated our communication even more, now we can even give someone a call with just the push of a button!
The recent trend among many governments to shorten documents and reports has led to the tendency to abbreviate whenever possible.
We can thus only hope the human species will succeed in avoiding self-destruction and learn to live under a system that allows the great majority of humans to live a good life without having to worry about such basics as finding their next meal and having
The abbreviation of the name could also be rendered as NSDAP
The textbook should be able to explain the theory in less detail while still allowing students to grasp the main ideas, which are crucial to understanding ...
If you want to send this in, you will have to abbreviate your hometown.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'except'.
Professor:Who can describe "The Highwayman" by Alfred Noyes?
But common or garden varieties will only be able to abbreviate the symptoms of a disease, not eliminate them.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'phrase'.
However, some economists believe otherwise and argue that the measures will only abbreviate the recession rather than solve the problem itself.
And there was even a fashion for writing letters in Latin in the 17th century, with people constantly abbreviating words and making the language as compact as possible.
Defecting from the Nazi party, he was allowed to abbreviate his first name to O.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'originate'.
The period from 1680 to 1715 is often referred to as England's "great catastrophe" or the "Great Stop".
To save money, the editor decided to abbreviate the name of the newspaper.
The First World War, which broke out in the summer of 1914, was finally coming to an end.
No abbreviation
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'complicated'.
He talked a great deal about his plans for the college, but unfortunately he abbreviated most of the details.
His initial success led him to abbreviate his name.
"The pursuit of wealth and the acquisition of knowledge make a strong case for the capacity of humans to abbreviate their own misery."
The dean has asked you to ABBREVIATE the list of honours students who are eligible for prizes this year.
It would be most useful to you if you were to take a detailed but an abbreviated version of the training.
The reason why people in the Middle Ages abbreviated so many words was that, first, they had to be learnt and, second, there was a limited amount of space on a page.
The first crossword was published in 1913 and it soon became a very popular new pastime, which was initially called an enigmatic crossword, but in time the word "crossword" became its usual name and the word "enigmatic"
The older, longer method of naming proteins was very lengthy and difficult to remember for most people so a system of abbreviating the names greatly increased.
A new method was needed to abridge t
Only a few newspapers abbreviated the word; it took time before it became identified with the holiday.
If the child is under sixteen, he or she can't be charged with committing a criminal offence because children under the age of sixteen cannot be held legally responsible for their actions,and sentences under American law cannot be given to those who are not legally
UNESCO has struggled to abbreviate the list of World Heritage in Danger.
When the US dollar was first established in 1794, it had tremendous initial success.
However, it will be necessary to abbreviate the process by eli
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "imitation".


#accordingly

The French government was weak and distracted by the war with Prussia, which had been going on since 1870. Accordingly, it did little to prevent a wave of anti-Semitism from sweeping the country.
The second goal of the Congress was to raise the participating countries' awareness for the need of a collective reaction on important international political events.
Also, many of the natives were forced to settle in the poor and under-populated areas of the country accordingly.
However, English farmers were unable to keep up with the demand for food and landowners had to look elsewhere for supply of wheat, rye and barley.
The meeting lasted two hours, accordingly you didn't expect much to be decided.
He believed that the universe was filled with an invisible force, which he called "the aether." Willmeyer accordingly modified his engine to operate in a special chamber.
The speech reports on the failure of the Allied operation in the Gallipoli Peninsula during World War I. It was decided to appeal to US President Woodrow Wilson for support.
P.O.W.'s set a record of staying alive in the most unlikely conditions, and accordingly their war crimes were relatively few.
The judge decided that he would first hear the case for the Plaintiff, and accordingly, he ruled that the book in question was libelous towards an identifiable person, and he issued an injunction against its continued publication.
We are already using a substantial proportion of our GDP on health care; accordingly, other
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hindsight'.
"If the universe is billions of years old as opposed to 10 000 as indicated by irrefutable evidence from scripture, then this changes everything. The Bible itself becomes a book of untrustworthy mythology."
The rise of strong, powerful governments like that of Spain, France and England was at its height towards the end of this period.
The British granted more and more freedom to the colonies; accordingly the colonial elite became less fearful of London's intentions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "and".
She refused to put her name down, accordingly he refused to help her.
The law was changed and slave owners were compensated accordingly, for their loss of property.
The bill was passed accordingly.
‘Consequently, the average body temperature for humans is 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit.'
Those things such as health care, shelter, education, and communications are considered to be the basic requirements for leading an acceptable life.
Both the workers and peasants of each territory spoke the language accordingly.
In Genesis 41, the Bible states that Egypt was experiencing a great deal of starvation. Accordingly, Jacob sent his brother Joseph to buy grain.
Amit and Mohamed were accordingly sentenced to three months' imprisonment for their actions.
The industrial revolution that occurred in Britain was not an inevitable event. The reasons for it have been debated by historians, however.
Victorian morality consequently demanded that a wife submit to her husband's sexual demands, regardless of how she felt about him.
Railroad companies raced to construct tracks in territories that had previously not been settled. Railroad companies proceeded to build vast networks of railways, further opening up the West.
I wanted a new car. I worked hard all year. I could afford to buy one, so I bought one accordingly.
Professor: The soldiers were given a period of leave from the front and were consequently ordered to report to army headquarters in London.
"However," Dr.
It is a common misconception among anglophones that Hamsun supported the Nationalsocialist party.
Consequently, to simply dismiss them as non-achievers is to severely underestimate the importance of a good education.
The Dadaists would destroy the artistic conventions of a society according to its place and time; accordingly, the Dadaists in postwar France, for example, would give passionate speeches against capitalism and fascism and other social evils.
The Council will meet again next month and accordingly religious law will remain in effect until the Council votes otherwise
However, most of the people who traveled on these ships were men.
The Thirty Years' War was fought primarily in Germany and involved most of the major European powers of the period.
Peter the Great's social reforms were undoubtedly successful; accordingly, they paved the way for his transformation of Russia into a major European power.
An institution is a permanent establishment which, according to Merriam-Webster's, is "a building or complex of buildings"
Professor: In this manner, through consolidation of royal power the state can be strengthened and stabilized, and once that process has been accomplished — and it has been accomplished in most states at this point — then the main danger is that public opinion might
"if I'm going to get you out of here, we have to do it accordingly to my plan".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inseparable'.
The language style of newspapers, blogs, and social media websites has been influenced accordingly.
Three prominent moral theories, contractarianism, Kantianism and consequentialism will be discussed in the following paragraphs.
A republican model of government was not the only way to respond to the French Revolution. The British Parliament, according to Kesteven, "responded accordingly" after the 1215 Magna Carta gave Britain a taste of liberty.
The best way to convince employees that they should work harder and therefore produce more for the company is to pay them good wages according to their ability and to train them too, according to their ability.
The song's list of the American casualties is accordingly moving as the personification of the American War dead mounts.
The reason why these people were successful is that they abandoned the cities accordingly and followed a nomadic, tribal way of life, which was a good formula for success in that particular environment.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fictional'.
Professor: Alternatively, you can use the relationships of the people involved to deduce what might have happened.
The general consensus among historians is that if the king had made even the tiniest concessions, Churchill would have stood trial accordingly.
The decision was accordingly kept top secret throughout World War II.
However, this theory was soon challenged by the invention of the steam engine by James Watt.
At his trial he pleaded guilty and accordingly was executed.
Newspaper editorials accordingly called for a boycott of Mexican products, which was largely successful.
"The Right of the People to keep and bear arms" is therefore directly incorporated into the Constitution and according to the Ninth Amendment, this right is "necessary to... preserve the... rights".
A good education is accordingly an essential tool in furthering one's success in the job market, and will lead to higher incomes.
1. They decided to enter Canada and accordingly presented themselves at a port of entry.
as a result, some industrial regions boomed while others languished
The decision to ban smoking in public areas has been made. Smoking is not permitted in classrooms, laboratories or the library. Smoking is not permitted in the cafeteria at any time. Smoking is permitted in the courtyard.
The word ‘Industry' is used to describe the productive capability of a region's inhabitants.
The government were also able to respond to the demands of a rebellion in one region by taking troops from elsewhere.
I didn't find your report very interesting. Accordingly, I didn't give you a high grade.
I would have risked my life in order to save the girl; nevertheless, I would (and) according to the jury's decision, as well as my own conscience, I carried out the appropriate sentence.
The United States, therefore, didn't join the League of Nations.
Under the Articles of Confederation, each state retained its sovereignty and was thus independent from the other states. Accordingly, there was no common judicial system for criminals to be tried in; instead, each state had its own set of laws and legal system.
However, in the late twentieth century, technology available to hikers was developed, ameliorating the situation.
The politicians reacted accordingly, and a change in policy was put through parliament.
The peace negotiations proceeded accordingly; and a treaty was drawn up, signed, and ready to be ratified.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'trivialise'.
The Iroquois Constitution formed the model for the American Constitution. As such, it is ambiguous how much power the National Council actually had, especially compared to the Confederacy Council.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'govern'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'led'.
This included building many factories and setting up proper sewer systems, all of which required a large influx of cash.
The real strength of the Catholic Church was in rural Ireland, and accordingly great efforts were made to try to rally support there.
The crystal structure of the enzyme has now been extensively analysed and is known to be a highly efficient protein machine, which has evolved according to the principle of computationally efficient design, and accordingly it has an elegant, if complicated, design...
The Indians were willing to sell the land, the Yankees were willing to pay for it,
Citizens have to pay tax on income accordingly to the amount it reaches, without taking into account any other expenses.
The British government responded accordingly, sending troops to maintain order in the region.
(CONTD from above)And, accordingly, many of the genes that the geneticists focused on might have served purposes other than immunity.
Most political writers of the period, accordingly, thought carefully about the nature of man and society.
A computer on the desk then prints out the following:
Biological warfare does not have the same history or hold the same stigma that chemical warfare does.
They could be used by terrorists, who would then be able to cross borders and bring down airplanes accordingly.
Professor: The Zulus; like many tribes in southern Africa, had a segmented society consisting of several different classes of people.
Still, these predictions have rarely been used in the real world, so we don't know how well they'll stand up to extensive use and therefore whether their designers' efforts were worthwhile or not.
Some immigrants came to America and made it their home; others arrived expecting America to adapt to them. This attitude was (or is) especially strong among some of the groups who first came to this country -- the English, for example.
The theory that the moon formed after a body roughly the size of mars struck the earth 4 billion years ago, leading to the creation of our satellite, was at first considered crazy.
The army set up a number of outposts at important locations in the city and pulled soldiers from other parts of the country to staff them accordingly.
The knight was both richly dressed and armored, accordingly his shield was painted with a white rose.
However, the Church remained adamant on the subject of heliocentrism.
Unfortunately, however...
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
The state of inflation we live in right now is not too high, so accordingly a bit of inflation still helps by making the prices fall.
I got up from the table and packed my books into my bag. The professor had said that the mid-term would be a written test, which I was well prepared for, so I was not worried.
The governor decided to release the prisoners, accordingly, there were many more murderers and thieves on the streets.
Professor: The lesson is therefore important because it shows that Van Gogh painted trees according to nature but also according to the artists he had learned from, namely French painters.
The American constitution provides that the House of Representatives shall be elected "accordingly".
Charles II was accordingly declared to have the right to rule.
The Second World War led to the starvation of millions of people, especially in India and China, accordingly t
The government could have settled with the farmers, paying them what they wanted, or it could have enforced its claim to all the land, according to Roman law.
However, at this point it must be noted that each of the people involved in the decision process will according to their own particular situation and disposition will react differently.
Travellers should take accordingly into account that winter conditions can affect traffic, with cars and trains operating on different schedules.


#accountable

One member of our group is a professional accountant, so we won't have any financial accountability problems.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'significant'.
The recent spate of financial scandals has made the government more accountable to the voters.
Politicians who are not directly elected such as Prime Ministers are not directly accountable to the people.
The mayor, however, is directly and legally accountable to the citizens in a way that an unelected monarch like Elizabeth never was.
The Flemish writer Jan Vossen was the first to criticize the politicians in his newspaper articles. He made the politicians of the Dutch Republic, for the first time, politically accountable for their actions.
The results of this research allowed the government to hold the researchers directly accountable for the money spent on their projects.
Democracy was slow to come to Spain and when it eventually arrived, it did not include the right to free speech, let alone the right to protest.
The notion that politicians should be accountable to their citizens is central to all modern democracies.
Leaders of the thirty-party alliance are calling for a system in which governments are more accountable to the general population.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'parliament'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'pamphlet'.
The session ends.
Of course, being subject to the whims of a tyrant of any kind is a bad thing. And being accountable to an all-powerful entity who can punish you after death may seem like an extreme circumstance to most of us.
Paine and Reagan were the most influential leaders in their fields, as they paved the path for other revolutionary changes, and are directly accountable for the situations we find ourselves in today.
The governor is directly elected by the people and is accountable to them, as represented by his constant approval rating in opinion polls.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'science'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'evidence'.
It's much easier to be an armchair quarterback than it is to be accountable for your team's performance on the field.
However, some people believe that it would be impossible to hold such officials entirely accountable for their actions while in office.
Managers must hold employees more accountable for their decisions and actions.
We demand that the government be fully accountable for all its actions.
The Party claimed that the punishments handed out by the Inner Party including summary executions and the Room of Razor were in fact a way of holding itself accountable for its actions.
The League had to accept every government that was democratically elected, even if it was closely allied to the Fascists and every member was therefore "accountable" to them.
Some government officials believe that no US president should serve more than two terms, in order to make the officials themselves are accountable for decisions made while in office.
The head teacher claimed that it was not her fault that the school system was unaccountable.
They blamed the government for the dreadful state of the country and said it was not accountable for the problems.
The pre-Christian concept of the sanctity of laws held that rulers were accountable to the gods for their actions.
The governor blamed the mounting unrest on the increase in crime caused by the failing economy.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'representatives'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'alliance'.
The argument that the university should be held less accountable to government, which funds it, has been raised many times.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'act'.
This society was very hierarchical and the rulers had little need to be accountable to anybody else, except the Gods.
The king's advisors believed he should not leave the palace, since everyone in the kingdom was accountable to him for their actions.
Employees are legally and personally accountable for all merchandise issued to them.
The board of directors is ultimately "accountable" to the shareholders for profits made.
The Prime Minister has to be ready to accept the consequences of his government's actions, and therefore must be held accountable by the people.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'operationalize'.
Since the earliest years of the modern state, rulers have attempted to make people more accountable for their actions.
The mayor believes that the police are far from being transparent or accountable to the public and should be made so.
"After the collapse of the colony at Roanoke, no English child has been sent to America, and so no children have been held accountble for what happens on the other side of the pond. "
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modernization'.
And I think that a fair amount of those protestors who, for example, go into the big lending companies and throw bricks through the windows or whatever it is, I think people, have to be accountable for their actions.
It would be pointless to make the police force directly accountable to ordinary people as it would just lead to inefficiency, and a complete lack of initiative.
One way of making politicians more accountable to the people they serve is public debate over policies.
Some Western diplomats had been outspoken in their criticism of the Eritrean government, and there was some talk that the bombing was an effort to intimidate those westerners responsible for writing that country's report.
The following people are all accountable to me: Louis West, Shirley Young, and Gerry Fletcher.
The rise of the trade unions ensured that workers were at last accountable to a greater entity than their immediate supervisor.
An increase in the number of police on the streets can be presumed to have had an effect on crime, but how much the crime rate has been diminished is less readily accountable.
More recently the government has been held directly accountable to the citizens by having regular elections.
By giving a child the right to appeal against a decision made by its parents it makes the parents less accountable for their own child.
This will change the way people are held accountable for their actions.
It's also an attempt by the rich to ensure they remain in power, that's why all these privatization plans are heavily subsidized by taxpayers' money and rarely account for what they do with it.
Countries that signatories to international human-rights treaties are legally accountable to the courts of these treaties.
Your actions as a company commander during the war were accountable for the deaths of many of your men.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "independence".
The Prime Minister said in a TV interview that the government was not directly responsible for the flooding of the valley, but it would create a body to which people could address their grievances.
The money distributed to the recruits was accountable for any mess made on their clothes, as well as other things.
The most dangerous power, our young friend here reminds me, is the power toertonaties.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "perceive".
I don't know how I wou
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "radius".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'plausible'.
Professor:The Common Agricultural Policy in the European Union has been widely criticized as being unaccountable and unnecessarily wasteful.
In face of such aggressive Turkish expansion the major European powers were forced to abandon their incessant feuds and become accountable for their own territorial integrity and general political stability.
An elected representative should be fully accountable to their constituents so that the will of the people can be known and respected.
The Boer War in South Africa was a new kind of war. It was reportage, not rumor, and photographers were there to record everything, making the incidents more real and immediate for people back home.
Private charity became less popular over the course of the nineteenth century. It was thought to be less accountable and therefore more corrupt than state-run institutions.
It would mean that the citizens of a country could directly elect their head of government, giving them the power to make them more accountable to the people.
The new rulers were also to be accountable to an elected legislature.
The United States, in its search for a "modern"
The use of the hand can help us to distinguish an action which is merely purposeful from one which is guided by conscious intentions.
A: The old people were less likely to support the war because they remember how useless World War I was. Younger people could be swayed by propaganda and reports from family members and friends who had served.
Lorenz argues for laws to be passed that would hold gun manufacturers accountable for murders committed using guns that they made.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'imaginary'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vengeance'.
It is difficult to demand that the leaders of other states be accountable for their decisions.
The new constitution created a new government that is responsible and accountable to the people.
Immanuel Kant believed we were free to act as we wish, but these actions had to be accountable for in the eyes of the law.
In this case students are given as many attempts as they require to pass
The main advantage of meritocracy is that it makes politicians more accountable.
In a parliamentary system, the elected representatives are supposed to be accountable to those who elect them.
However, some governments have made their presidents and prime ministers directly accountable to the people through popular votes.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elite'.
The problem was that the rise of democratic institutions brought about by the idiology of liberalism and radicalism created a system that was increasingly less accountable to public opinion.
One solution to the problem was to make governments hold manufacturers accountable for their actions, which meant that they could be punished if something went wrong with the products.
In a democracy, the government is elected by the people and is accountable to its citizens.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "originate".
Due to the extremely low temperatures and other extreme climactic conditions, no one can survive there making it a ‘blind spot' or ‘no man's land' where military forces from both sides could operate without any fear
The mayor believes that the police department is unaccountable and should be monitored by an independent body.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'necessary'.
The government wants to create a new Public Accountability office to monitor the police.
A few decades ago, the mood in America had become very health and safety conscious. Most employees were scared into compliance by the prospect of being fired or even jailed for non-compliance with incomprehensible safety regulations.
Academics should be more accountable for their work otherwise the public may lose respect for the university.
However, the defense argued that the act of creating the drug was not an unlawful deed since there was no law at that time, that obliged him to list all the ingredients of the medicine.
If you can show that the U.S. military was ultimately responsible for these abuses, and that it failed to hold commanders and soldiers accountable for these actions, then your video's thesis appears sound.
It is important for a government to be directly accountable to the people, not least because democracy is one of a nation's most cherished values.
The governments in the region have become increasingly accountable to their people.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'enterprise'.
In ancient times kings were thought to be accountable to God for their behavior.
Before the American Civil War, most Southern politicians argued that slavery was not an important issue and hoped that it would eventually disappear as a lot of Northern politicians claimed.
This would make the government more efficient and more accountable to the people.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "versus".
It would be preferable if politicians were directly elected, rather than appointed by the Prime Minister of the day, to make them more accountable to the people.
The suggestion that if the Americans did remove all of their troops there would be nothing to stop the Taliban from returning to power.


#acquiesce

Reluctantly, he acquiesced and handed it over to you, with the admonition to make sure it got full coverage as soon as possible.
Professor: However, the overwhelming strength of the German forces and their acquiescence to Hitler's plans soon created a powerful local flavour of Fascism that proved very hard to resist.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "parliaments".
Despite the animosity of the crowd, the army had to acquiesce to the demands of the protestors as it was clear that if it used force then it would have been unsuccessful.
Unwilling to risk an encounter, he acquiesced in his wife's decision to keep the tiles and pay the fine.
"Yes, I still have all my original body parts," the author wrote back to him, acquiescing in his request.
Even after the results of his experiment were made known to him, he acquiesced to no one.
The Council eventually agreed to hand the entire region of Alsace-Lorraine over to the new state.
The military were reluctant to acquiesce to the government's orders, but were prepared to take orders from the new regime.
In addition, the executive had to acquiesce to a remarkably — perhaps suspiciously — high number of parliamentary votes.
The students complied with their demands, much to the annoyance of the school, which had lost money as a result.
However, the population will mostly acquiesce to this as they know that it is ultimately for their own good.
An American scholar who visited the Soviet Union in the 1930s and returned to America to tell the public that there was no truth to the rumors of murders and starvation.
Never before had the winner of a round of the English Civil War been so eager to acquiesce to the demands of the defeated side.
The Prime Minister did not acquiesce to the demands.
Although they never really acquiesced to the evolution, the Vatican officially dropped its opposition to it about 20 years ago.
It was a tradition to quietly acquiesce in the parent's decision.
Friedrich Engels, the intellectual partner of Karl Marx, acquiesced to the idea that human beings evolved from earlier forms, but this did not mean he accepted the theory that they are inherently evolving now.
"The government will most probably acquiesce to the request," the political columnist wrote.
One of the most important events of Victoria's reign was her decision to not resist the growing demand for an independent Ireland.
Nebuchadnezzar reluctantly acquiesced to the Jewish demand that their God, Yahweh, should be worshipped.
The Tutsis in Rwanda have always quietly acquiesced to the rule of their more numerous Hutu compatriots.
However the states of Brandenburg and Saxony never really acquiesced to these territorial changes, instead they continued to claim their annexed territories within their official publications.
Only once did he ever really acquiesce to the wishes of others, when he reluctantly agreed to make a trip to a valley with his wife.
I don't know why you are insisting on a word that you want to initiate, rather than just accept my answer.
No event was more important in acquiescing the Indians to removal than the passage of the Indian Removal Act in 1830.
As the storm clouds built up on the horizon, the crowd fell silent and then began to jeer and boo the president when he failed to acquiesce.
'I will of course acquiesce to your decision, however I would urge you to reconsider.
The defendant refused to acquiesce to the judge's request for an explanation.
In this way the government was able to ratify and enforce laws without much acquiescence from the citizens.
The League of Nations refused to acquiesce in Japanese sovereignty over Korea.
Even though the Jews would have vastly preferred Cyrus to the Babylonians, they would ultimately acquiesce to his decision.
Professor: The court will have to acquiesce to this demand, we cannot risk sending the child home in case something happens to it.
However, many intellectual opponents of the regime were frightened into silence or acquiescence by the prospect of Duvalier's secret police, the Tonton Macoutes.
The city acquiesced in building the bypass after most of downtown was flooded.
Professor: Mr. Mason and I have known each other for many years. I can't remember a time when he didn't speak his mind or acquiesce to any man.
The states of Germany eventually agreed to the formation of a national parliament, or weighted voting system meant that Prussia would have a lot more control over the government than its population size or even its economic importance would have warranted.
The nobility were far too weak and incompetent to acquiesce to these demands, let alone meet them.
The new workers' party did not acquiesce, however.
Later the new technique was incorporated into academic art, and artists would be wise to acquiesce to their patrons' wishes
The majority didn't really want to fight the war but acquiesced in – reluctantly agreed to accept – the government's decision.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'respectively'.
The United States has agreed to acquiesce in the stationing of a United Nations peacekeeping force in New York City for as long as it's needed.
However, the Emperor made no attempt to stop it, instead acquiescing to the destruction of his order.
Many politicians in the Weimar Republic, unhappy with the reparations that had been imposed on them by the Treaty of Versailles, acquiesced to his rise.
The king was reluctant to acquiesce to the people's demands, but he knew it would cause a revolt.
The Jacobins demanded the king's execution and when he refused to acquiesce to it, they instituted a republic.
In general, it seemed that the people of the community had little choice but to acquiesce in these matters.
The docile Indians, eager to learn, soon acquiesced to the priests' demand that they work in their lands.
He was a great believer in democracy and he would never have acquiesced if he hadn't thought that you were right.
He didn't want to seem confrontational, so he acquiesced in their choice of film.
The professor acquiesces your request and provides one of his own.
"The British government acquiesced in the decision and the Maratha new state was incorporated into the dominion of British India"
"A" is willing to acquiesce to a voluntary blood letting since he is a little apprehensive about your unexpected skill at venesection.
Reluctantly, the government acquiesced to the pressure the Church was putting on them.
Most of the medieval church leaders acquiesced in the idea that the earth was perfectly spherical.
The difference that mattered, perhaps, was not whether one agreed with something the government did or not, but rather, whether one could do anything about it. The citizens there acquiesce to the whims of their government.
"This is no time for any one of us to acquiesce in silence."
"Do you mean 'acquiesce'?"
The disagreement between the judicial and the legislative branches of the US government was finally settled in 1857 when the Supreme Court, with the Dred Scott decision, agreed to not question the legislation regarding slavery.
"Acquiescence" is a term which has varied somewhat in meaning over the years.
This is the reason many American politicians have acquiesced to the pro-gun lobby's arguments against gun control: it is a lucrative vote-bank.
The reading argues that, regardless of gender and racial differences, women in general will tend to acquiesce to the dominance of men.
"Acquiesce" means "to give in grudgingly"
'I'll acquiesce to your judgement,' she tells him.
"I was asked to acquiesce and I will," he says wearily.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "treachery".
It finally submitted to Austrian occupation of Bosnia-Herzegovina, but it acquiesced in the hands-off policy the great powers had pledged to observe toward the Ottomans.
The city states acquiesced to the king's demands in order to prevent outside occupation of their lands.
The king had reluctantly acquiesced to the demands of the people and promised not to raise taxes.
"We should acquiesce in his request," I said.
In a speech at the University of Berlin, he argued against the League of Nations and for eugenics.
Acquiescence and conformity distribute and perpetuate ideas without any input of critical thought.
He opposed the idea, but later acquiesced to it.
The member states of the League of Nations finally acquiesced to Italian demands for assistance in 1935.
He agreed to take part in the march, even though he didn't really want to.
If the rebels acquiesced to every one of the changes that the government was proposing, then it would have been a victory for the government.
"We should acquiesce to their wishes" means "We should agree to their plans or requests".
"The present government of Vietnam has, however reluctantly, acquiesced in the destruction of the imperial palace."
People who took part in séances regularly would normally agree to anything the spirits requested, with the vague intention of acquiescing later when they didn't have their hands over the candles.
A number of landowners, while fearing the growing power of the NUPS, saw no danger in its demands and merely acquiesced to the union's requests.
No sooner had the dean acquiesced to your demands than twenty students decided to enroll in the course.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inferiority'.
The farmers often acquiesced to the demands because they feared what would happen if the crops failed again.
The Booh tribe might have acquiesced to state authorities in order to receive certain benefits, but the authority had no say in tribal decisions.
He didn't relent, but he finally found himself in a situation that he couldn't get out of, so he grudgingly acquiesced to their demands.
Homosexuality was long regarded as a psychiatric illness and was officially labeled as such by the American Psychiatric Association until 1973; it was not until 1995 that the association officially declared that homosexuality was not a mental disorder.
The third and probably most dangerous trap for the unwary historian is to rewrite history as it should have happened, rather than to attempt to discover what actually happened.
The union threatened to strike unless its demands for higher wages were acquiesced.
However, religious leaders did not acquiesce in these changes.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "ceasefire".
Acquiescing to the Emperor's demand for more troops would leaveilly undefended.
He agreed with the government's request, but knew that it would be extremely difficult to acquiesce their demands.
"I'm sorry," he said before 'acquiescing' to the inevitable.
"Acquiescence" was a major theme in SparkNotes.
However, the ancient king ultimately acquiesced to their demands rather than let his city go unfortified.
The United States and Britain insisted upon German acquiescence to their post-war aims.
"It seems like we have no choice but to acquiesce," the president said sadly,
The British had to acquiesce in the decision because they needed American help in the war.
In 1883, the British diplomat Sir Robert Hart renegotiated the treaty with China and acquiesced to Chinese customs to reduce trade costs.


#adequate

Adequate nutrition is essential for every child's normal mental and physical development.
However, the Nazis were still an illegal organisation, and he was arrested in February 1934 and sent to prison for a comparatively short period because the government wanted to keep him as an ally.
The ancient Egyptians believed that an afterlife existed and that the crucial necessity to ensure one was to preserve the body after death.
A good butler should have adequate knowledge of wines, a working knowledge of cigars and a complete understanding of mixology.
No one is claiming that the Bible is an inadequate document.
Most schools try to provide adequate education for their charges.
That problem was solved by the invention of the airship, which was large enough to carry passengers and cargo through the sky.
In the arena of life, adequate nutrition is as vital to good physical health as adequate knowledge is to good intellectual health.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "influential".
Some historians argue that, even though the League of Nations failed, it was an adequate experiment in world federalism.
Those who argue against the death penalty say that it isn't a deterrent and is no more an 'adequate punishment'.
He didn't seem to think that his role in the decision making process was adequate.
The argument behind this is that there have been numerous occasions in the past where governments have not intervened to protect citizens from economic hardship, and there is no reason to believe that this would change in the future.
"The problem with the 'modernization approach,' wrote the economist Robert Heilbroner, is that it assumes a priori an adequate connection between human wants and needs and the means to satisfy them."
The main problem with this type of financial scheme is that the government isn't able to raise loans in times of emergency because it doesn't have any collateral, such as a building or equipment, to offer.
The problem for the builders of the first railways was finding an efficient and economical way of conveying passengers and goods over long distances.
Again, the implication is that I've compromised my own findings in a misguided attempt to win your approval.
The area of law that deals with the procedures of criminal trials and sentences is called procedural criminal law.
Although this would result in faster and more efficient learning, the system would also require an enormous amount of resources to be dedicated towards storing new words after a large initial investment.
However, the statues weren't exactly as Marlon described them - they were much larger than adequate, but not as large as humoungous.
No worker could earn less than a certain amount and thus no family could earn less than a certain amount etc. Hence, what they do is guarantee everyone an income that is adequate.
"I agree that the learning robot as you've described it is certainly feasible within twenty years, and I don't see any moral grounds for objecting to it," Mr. Morrow says.
His reading comphrehension is adequate, but his writing skills need considerable improvement.
Tragically, the medical profession never quite managed to invent an adequate cure for the plague.
However, he did not in any way consider this conclusion adequate, and turned his attention to other biological phenomenon for further study.
The problem is that although the public school system was set up to create an educated citizenry, it had the opposite effect in terms of sport because it provided an adequate education.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'educated'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'necessary'.
Before the 19th century, few private dwellings in rural areas had water supplies. Most people got their water from wells. The water supply was often contaminated, so people frequently suffered illnesses caused by bacteria and viruses.
There are plenty of fish in the sea, but one must first learn how to fish before going out to catch anything worth catching.
The problem with early farming communities was that they were very susceptible to diseases. The dense populations helped spread illnesses, and if any major disease broke out the community could be decimated. This could have implications for later human development.
Because the casein in milk is broken down into complex chemicals called peptides, which are then broken down into single amino acids, and so on, until we're left with individual amino acids, some of which are known as the 8 essential amino
One usually finds that authorities are very accommodating if they see you are making a genuine effort to learn.
The best way to prepare yourself for the work ahead is to practise your skills on real patients by participating in activities such as dressing wounds, giving massages and preparing food.
While certainly a good student, she knew she could not hand in an adequate composition under the circumstances.
However, the bureaucratic state also had to rely on an adequate communication system, among many other things like a strong police force and a reliable transportation network.
Auden's poems in his "North" and "Reckoning" series are rather depressing; on the other hand, some of his other poems such as "In Sickness and in Health" can be said to be optimistic.
An efficient totalitarian government could probably create the institutions to give newly freed citizens the opportunity to work and lead civilized lives.
The problem is that the solutions you propose are only adequate, and they do not resolve the problem completely.
The current penal code in this state is disturbingly adequate at dealing with the fatal stabbi
After a week in the jungle, he felt that his experience hunting was adequate.
Traditionally, economists have worked in the fields of finance and government policy, but recently there has been considerable demand for economists specializing in other areas, especially in the private sector.
Tragically, the new humanist movement turned its back on religion altogether and became a secular movement, eventually leading to the idea of separation of church and state.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'predictable'.
However, I have studied the ancient Sumerians in some detail and I believe I will be able to identify the plant species that would have had the medicinal properties that your friend discovered.
The bill failed to obtain the necessary super-majority, which would have required sixty votes rather than fifty-one, for its adequate interpretation.
In a lecture about Roman history, it is inadequate to spend too much time on the subject of the Salk Vaccine.
The owners' demands were out of all proportion to those of the workers, and as a result the labor leaders rejected them as inadequate.
But physicians and other medical workers of the National Socialist party were considered adequate to the task.
From the 1889 novel "The Time Machine" by H.G.Wells
The new State Sentinel security measures are not adequate to deal with the threat of terrorism,
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "abstract".
There never has been, despite the claims of politicians, an adequate method of Coming to an agreement about these moral dilemmas.
The equal distribution of wealth is an example of a situation where rules are needed to decide what is fair and what is not.
They will not have adequate supplies for the winter.
Living in New York is expensive, but the subway is cheap and usually adequate for my needs.
The theory of natural selection is an inadequate explanation for the reality of evolution.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "charlatan".
The individual's understanding of the enormous social and political changes that had taken place was part of an inadequate schooling during the rapid industrialisation of the previous decades.
You have been in the class for an hour and your brain hurts. You wish you had gone to the bar instead.
The only thing approaching adequate documentation of concentration camps were aerial reconnaissance photographs of Auschwitz-Birkenau taken by the Allies in August 1944
If the citizens of a state can't participate in the elections because they have an inadequate knowledge of the language, they will always be second-class citizens.
The law states that all teachers must have a degree and that they must also pass an exam in their chosen subject, which must be an approved one by the government.
In the early 20th century there was a growing awareness that traditional education for women did not prepare them for adult life: girls often failed to finish school, and those who pursued higher education often failed to use that education later in life.
Most of the children felt a sense of personal accomplishment for having finished the training sessions but they felt the exercises were unnecessary and that ten minutes a day would have been more than adequate.
She was at her most impressive and authoritative when dealing with matters that inspired in her a sense of rightness and her sense of what was adequate or otherwise simply didn't come into it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "significance".
He was energetic, intelligent and ruthless. Above all, he was an excellent military leader.
In some states of the U.S, there are attempts to legislate against teachers, especially those who teach about evolution. The results of this are considered by some experts to be potentially...
It isn't certain how they were able to 're-create' the dead in such an 'adequate' manner.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'approval'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'principality'.
It's the law in most states that if a child is born with severe disabilities or deformities, the parents must provide adequate medical treatment.
The problem is, I haven't been able to find any recent studies that would be
In the ancient world, however, children rarely survived their first few years of life so there was no need for parents to have an intimate bond with their children or even love them.
A reasonable person might assume that as humans advanced from hunter-gatherer societies to nation states and as they went from relying on stone tools to using gunpowder weapons, they would experience a growth in intellectual capacity.
It was not until the late 19th century that a working class developed with sufficient organization and intelligence to challenge the elite to an extent that was anywhere near adequate for their needs.
The U.S. Army insisted that sewage and waste disposal in the city be adequate before it would agree to occupy it.
I agree that more socialized medicine is needed, but I'm not sure the presidential candidate's plan is adequate.
Nevertheless, the king granted their demands, for he knew that it would be dangerous to let them leave; if they joined the opposition, which was strong, his rule would be endangered.
Most of them were able to produce enough milk to feed their babies adequately.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "construct".
The first major effort to reform schooling in America was the development of 'common schools.' These were public schools established by state governments.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "appease".
The final solution was the creation of a "human life code," which could allow any normal human to regenerate body parts, and, so its proponents claimed, eventually live forever with regular injections of the code.
No one person or group of people can have a full understanding of the human mind, personality, and life in general. An adequate understanding is beyond the comprehension of any one individual.
The manner in which quantum mechanics has been applied to human behaviour is extremely crude, and its results are necessarily somewhat inaccurate because only a few isolated aspects of human behaviour can be adequately described using quantum theory.
Some of these kids don't get to go through an adequate development stage of life.
Furthermore, the difference between the coursework and the final exam is quite large; the coursework, in effect, is merely an introduction to what will be expected of you during the final examination.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing
Although the event was not exactly pleasant for her, the fact that her children and grandchildren have turned out to be among the brightest and most well-adjusted children in school is a testimony to the fact that the only thing she did wrong was give them
The problem with the aristocracy was that it was necessary to have a king, and kings were never known for being excessively competent.
The house they rented in the village of Pétionville had fallen below what Preudhomme considered an 'adequate' standard of living.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "reform".
But not all the troops were ill-disciplined, the mercenaries and German princes, who often commanded armies in the Holy Roman Empire, were more adequate.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "characteristic".
In every case the monarch completely subverted the judicial process and turned it into an instrument of tyranny and terror, often using a secret police force to wring confessions from victims before they ever got to trial.
However, the size of the book made reading it in bed impossible and Jane complained that she missed the sense of touch that she enjoyed when reading Braille books; consequently Master taught her to play music so that the two of them could have something else
He had never been an adequate student, and the schoolwork required for a college degree was foreign to him.
The Thirties was a decade of extremes: of economic collapse and political chaos on the one hand, and of great achievement in art, music and literature on the other.
Noah's Ark was built to an adequate standard - it stayed afloat for over a month, and managed to house two of every kind of animal for this period of time.
The organization did not have the adequate structures to ensure proper security for all of its operations.
Managers had to be constantly alert for signs that the business was, or was not, performing up to an adequate standard.


#advantage

The main advantage of this approach is that the company could achieve its goal immediately.
Once the Spaniards had stabilised their rule, they began to make great advantages for themselves and the Catholic Church took over many of the roles previously reserved for Maya rulers.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'application'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "initiate".
The American colonies were very advantageous for the British.
The advantage of going over there was that there might still be some supplies to be had, and if the military were using horses there would probably still be some left at the stables.
The advantage of the Internet is that you can learn about things that are happening in both places.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reputation'.
Though many soldiers were reluctant to adapt to the new technology and tactics of the time, the development of firearms had a great strategic advantage.
But if they are to survive in their crowded environment, family members must somehow prevent the escalator effect from operating, or at least delay it.
If you want to have the advantage over your opponents, it might be best to start working on a presentation.
The struggle between the classes in Victorian society was believed by most people to be part of the natural order of things, just as necessary as the struggle between predators and prey in nature.
The 1783 Treaty of Georgievsk was a military and strategic triumph for Russia, giving them a clear advantage over the Ottomans.
In their opinion, without democracy the United States does not have sufficient advantage over other countries to justify its existence as a nation.
Why study history?
The key advantage of direct marketing is that it gives businesses the opportunity to promote products directly to consumers without having to go through middlemen, such as wholesalers.
In the past, when historians held a whiggish view of history, which assumed that Britain's constitutional monarchy was a steadily linear improvement over the ancient tyrannies it had replaced, English historians argued that Magna Carta was only an advantage for
One aspect of the First World War that might be in the advantage of the Allies was their naval superiority.
The development of firearms gave the Europeans a considerable advantage over the aboriginal population.
From this time on the state had all the advantages and the individual had none.
The first important take-home lesson is to always look for the advantages and disadvantages of the various positions as well as arguments.
Although the process of historical revisionism in the former Eastern Bloc has given dissidents a voice, as it were, it has arguably lacked any real intellectual weight and, as a result, many historians with little or no formal training have emerged with their
The main advantage of channelling television programmes through satellites rather than sending them through cables is that satellites can send programmes to any country on the same frequency.
It would be folly to pretend that the religious strife now wrecking the Middle East has no potential for crippling the American way of life.
But there was a major advantage to working outside: fresh air.
However, on the other hand, the national government was now in a position to take away the states' traditional advantage of independent action.
The obvious advantage of a single currency is the increased ease of trading between European countries.
The government would see a peaceful dissolution of the empire as an unacceptable strategic disadvantage.
For the parents without advanced education, who are at home during the day with their children, there is the advantage of being able to directly influence their children's upbringing.
The fact that they didn't have a written language and the advantage that gave them during a hunt.
The government preserved its advantage of the initiative, and a few days later it won the battle.
In the first half of the seventeenth century, Spain had the greatest advantage because it was the only European power with a strong presence in the new world (Boyd).
With the advantage of hindsight, we might have just stayed in the car and kept the engine running while we waited for the police to arrive, but that kind of common sense escapes most people in times of crisis.
In the late 20th century, many sports stadiums were built, which had the advantage of generating public enthusiasm for sports and collecting enough money to keep teams from going bankrupt.
The workers did have some advantages as a result of the revolution, such as better working conditions.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'primary'.
The use of airships had many advantages. First and most importantly of all, they could travel much faster than any of the existing airplanes or airships, or hot-air balloons for that matter.
Religious freedom was not a new idea, but the idea of separation of church and state was.
One of the most important advantages of his idea was that it got people to start thinking in terms of hard facts and scientific evidence rather than relying on speculation and theories.
As the child leaves, the faces of the crowd turn ugly. The advantage has tilted against you, and you know it.
In the 16th century, one of the advantages of playing on a generally level field was that it enabled
In the eighteenth century the great advantage that being land-owning conferred on British citizens was that they had a vote.
He was intelligent and tough; more than that, he had an advantage over many of his rivals.
Roger Bacon was an English philosopher and scientist, who was the first to apply the scientific method to experiments.
The chief advantage of the Industrial age is that it allows for large-scale production of products.
If one nation were to create a permanent colony on the moon, write what would be the advantages and disadvantages for this nation?
Although the battle was a loss for the British, it proved to be a strategic advantage a year later when the Americans were forced to surrender at Yorktown.
And this allowed them to have the advantage on the battlefield over their less organized enemies.
But in fact, as we all know, the latest fashion is one of the most expensive, so anyone can find an advantage there.
The gunpowder plotters of 1605 hoped to improve the situation of England's Catholics by assassinating King James I and replacing him with his more tolerant son, also James.
The ancient Incas used a base-twelve system rather than our base-ten system, which gives them an advantage when doing calculations because it is easier to do multiplication and division with such a system.
The use of expensive American beef on the British market had given the Americans a trading advantage.
"The clear advantage of the new weapon, speed, was also its main disadvantage, for it compelled gener
There was no doubt that further investigation would prove beneficial to the development of aviation.
Once the scale of the protests became apparent, the government was keen to show that it had no intention of bowing to the mob's demands as this would have given it a distinct disadvantage during future negotiations.
A major advantage of digital technology for the individual is the ability to correct mistakes immediately after they're made.
The use of the telescope and the microscope gave astronomers and biologists an advantage, however, other scientists soon built upon their works.
The discovery of plastic in the 20th century was a great advantage to the medical industry.
The disadvantage of the new "strip mining" technique, however, is that it leaves terrible scars on the landscape.
The wealthy land owners had many advantages over the lower classes. First and foremost, they owned lots of land. Second, they could afford to send their sons to private schools. Third, they controlled most of the government.
The governments of the countries were all determined to continue giving their total advantage to their own country.
The conflict's final result was to give a big advantage to the large empires over the smaller states.
The English had two main advantages: the use of firearms which gave them an advantage over the Spanish knights, and the huge fleet surrounding the Spanish Armada.
Although ultimately his contraptions proved useless, it is clear that Da Vinci had a great advantage over his rivals in that he had a very scientific approach to engineering and an experimental method of determining how things work.
The development of industry led to the growth and advantage of political units.
Professor: To take advantage of the arbitrage, one would have had to engage in a series of complex, and risky, financial activities.
Professor: The only advantage that the Native Americans seemed to have was their mastery of the art of warfare; however, even this did not help them much.
The main advantage of the taxation system was that it ensured the survival of the kingdom, whilst its disadvantage was that it caused much resentment between the upper and lower classes during this period.
The relationship between the right and the rich in the U.S. has always been advantageous for both parties.
It is obvious that the United States had a huge economic, social and military advantage over Iraq.
In retrospect, he believed it was a mistake to have left the city since he gave up an advantage by leaving its protective walls.
The scientists did not allow journalists to see or film the preparations for the experiment, denying them any advantage to writing about it over the scientists involved.
The innovation that brought about the industrial revolution in Great Britain was the development of machines, particularly the steam engine, to replace manpower. This made British industry more efficient and allowed for products to be made at a cheaper cost.
Unlockable Area: The professor will tell you to come back the next day, after which he gives you a run down of "secret areas" around the campus, accessed with "odd doors", giving you a list.
The aim was to achieve military advantage, partly through building a large army of local people to help them rule.
The main advantage of steam engines is that the energy released when the water boils is used to turn the wheels directly so there is no wasted energy.
The main advantage of a presidential system is that the people elect a single leader and ensure they have a clear majority for example the republicans in the US and the Conservatives in Britain.
The English public schools and universities of this period had a great advantage over their competitors: places in them was vastly expensive and therefore only the children of rich aristocrats could attend.
In the 19th century, under the long rule of Queen Victoria and her son Edward VII, the British had great advantages in trade, resources, and industry.
Although the doctors believed the treatment had some advantages, its main advantage for the medical profession was that it would save them from having to listen to patients complain!
Although not all men had the same advantages, the most fortunate among them had leniency during trials and were often pardoned.
The major advantage of digital technology is that it can be used to instantly find graphics and photographs.
We have already discussed the possible advantages of using fossil fuels, but what are the disadvantages?
They had discovered that all plant and animal life have certain instructions for building living creatures.
Before the rise of Hitler, the Nazis were a relatively small group with little statewide electoral success or organizational strength outside of Munich.
The main advantage of a republic is that it disallows the extremely wealthy to have an unfair influence on the government ,as they would be in a monarchy.
In a decision that surprised many, the AFL-CIO voted last year to give its endorsement and financial support to the McCain for President organization, and not to his opponent, Democrat John Kerry.
He was definitely the world's most powerful leader during the period 1660 to 1670 and his country unquestionably enjoyed the advantage in the buildup to the war.
The management of the band thought the synthesiser player might add an interesting dimension to their sound, but they soon decided that his playing had too many disadvantages.
Those animals that benefited from the scarcity of their predators thrived.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "cause".
The advantage of the English was that their tight discipline and tactics allowed them to outmaneuver the Scots.
Where did the advantage lie, was it with the large buildings and accompanying bureaucracy of the Catholic Church or the smaller but more cohesive communities of the Protestants?
In England and other countries with parliamentary systems the monarch's power is limited by that of the parliament.
Partial hospitalization programs may have advantages as a treatment alternative for severely, chronically impaired patients.
(a) So far, the new party seems to be achieving most of its aims by peaceful, parliamentary means, giving it an advantage over militant groups.
The iron and copper alloys gave the weapons an advantage because they were harder than stone, easier to make and cheaper.
The country listed. It had a distinct advantage when it came to trading with other countries and acquiring resources, since they didn't have to share the little that they had with their citizens.
Although I have the advantage over you in many ways, I have no real experience in this industry.
The term ‘first past the post' means the person who gains the most votes will win the election, which gives them a clear advantage.


#adverse

His emotional nature made it difficult for him to accept adverse criticism.
While the discovery of new treatment methods for diseases is obviously beneficial, the adverse effects of these new drugs are not.
A number of adverse effects may be experienced after taking the drug.
Most people think of adverse reactions to medicines as a modern phenomenon, but even in Shakespeare's time, opiates were notorious for their capacity to cause addicts to slip into a stupor.
Kyros' unusually adverse reaction made him realize that perhaps he needed to rein himself in for Dendrin's sake if the plan was going to work.
The adverse effects of the condition are anorexia and malnutrition.
The company faced adverse publicity when one of the senior managers embezzled funds.
However, a few of the patients taking placebos died apparently due to the drugs' adverse effects.
The adverse finding by the FDA has caused company stock to fall
The book describes the native flora and fauna of the region, as well as the adverse weather conditions encountered by early explorers and settlers.
The adverse weather conditions meant that crops frequently didn't grow and when they did, they were very low quality.
If you suffer from adverse side effects, consult a doctor immediately.
Nevertheless, all changes have their adverse effects somewhere or other.
The World Bank and International Monetary Fund condition their loans on the basis of governmental changes.
If the university has more students than places it has to turn them away, which is known to be more adverse for academic performance than dropping out.
When all the women drivers began crashing their cars into bridges, adverse weather conditions were blamed.
British citizens may hold adverse positions on the EU, but that doesn't mean they want to leave.
A couple of adverse impacts of severe pollution are habitat destruction, and the loss of various species (causing imbalance in the ecosystem).
The historian should try to eliminate the favorable or adverse comments of their own.
The patient's condition has only grown worse from the presentation of these adverse symptoms.
Q: Why do you think the industries were so adverse to engage in public relations activities during this time?
They could cause severe health problems or even death to the people taking them if not used properly, and their adverse effects on the environment made their production unacceptable.
Regardless of adverse natural conditions in England where the game was first introduced in 1864, it has thrived.
The adverse conditions on the island severely hampered maintenance efforts.
Some potential side effects of this medication are dizziness and nausea and in some patients difficult
Aspirin, an analgesic that is suitable for treating headaches and the aches and pains of arthritis, was among the most popular drugs of the early twentieth century
The main adverse consequence of the collapse of a government is the chaos that immediately follows it.
Not all have been supportive of the scheme's potential to dampen or even reverse adverse trends in population growth.
Many of the adverse effects that the geneticists found are similar to those observed in a rare disorder called Williams Syndrome.
However, in the early 20th century, several adverse factors combined to diminish the success of the museum.
The adverse effects of the radiation from these new drugs convince the scientists that they needed to do more tests before they could be safely used on people.
The adverse effects of slavery, which, while not the main focus of Southern economic effort, were certainly considerable.
However, there are some adverse effects of high population density.
However, the adverse effects of Whig policies soon came to outweigh their benefits.
They opposed the government's plans to develop a fighter jet because of the adverse effects that it would have on the environment.
But the main adverse factor was the British, who had gained a strong position in India.
The adverse health effects of the miners' hard physical labor and dangerous working conditions were obvious to all.
The most adverse consequence of the war was the death of millions.
Meanwhile, adverse weather conditions brought chaos to most of the continents of the world.
The adverse testing conditions in space help scientists to learn how equipment performs under stresses more squeezling than any found on Earth.
Some of the adverse effects of rapid climate change include loss of food resources and severe alterations in weather conditions.
He admitted that he had lied to the police about your whereabouts for several hours after the time the crime was committed, but said that it wasn't an attempt to adversely affect your situation.
The report also takes an adverse view of the claims for bovine growth hormones, saying that there is no evidence of any threat to human health.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'tertiary'.
The adverse effects of the pollution were seen mostly in children who lived at a younger age, as well as in animals.
The adverse effects of pollution on health are well known.
Contrary to adverse publicity, the World Bank does not make a habit of seizing the land of small farmers in developing nations.
During the time of the Holy Roman Empire, the term adverse meant enemies, usually the enemies of God.
The adverse effects of the development are obvious and include soil erosion, flooding, increased volume of water in the river downstream and a reduction in the amount of arable land available.
Farmers welcomed the introduction of the factory as it made their produce ch
He accused the government of having made a number of adverse changes to the tax code.
The adage "anything worth having is worth waiting for" can be applied in an adverse way, in that one might worry so much about the future that one does not enjoy the present.
The adverse effect of this was that it became increasingly difficult to trade with other parts of Europe, let alone the rest of the world.
"The law cannot be adverse to the accused and to the general public at the same time," wrote Judge Cardozo.
A good diet is essential to your health, and a poor diet can have adverse effects on your physical and mental well-being.
The adverse effects of the transport would be that it increases substantially the risk of accidents happening.
Unfortunately, some governments fail to realize that excessively harsh measures in the war on terror have a tendency to create more terrorists than they get rid of.
The adverse effects of the Little Ice Age included shortening the growing season, colder temperatures, and harsher winters.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'adverse'.
The adverse reactions included hallucination, irritability and the inability to form clear thoughts.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'adverse'.
However, the pressure of adverse selection meant that the less fertile group would become extinct in around 500 generations.
You ask the professor for a sentence containin
These measures were taken in response
These measures were taken in response to the dangerous and adverse conditions on the roads.
You ask the professor for a sentenc
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'adverse'.
There were a number of adverse effects of the Industrial Revolution. Pollution and other by-products damaged the environment. Workers were ruthlessly exploited.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'adverse'.
Due to the adverse weather conditions, the road was occasionally closed for short periods.
Due to the adverse weather conditions, the road was occasionally closed for short periods.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'adverse'.
The adverse effects of technology are often only apparent much later.
The adverse effects of technology are often only apparent much later.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'adverse'.
The adverse effects of infanticide, such as a shortage of marriageable women, may have led to the practice of incest.
After the adverse effects of many drugs became apparent, governments began to regulate them more.
After the adverse effects of war were well documented, the international community outlawed the use of chemical and biological weapons.
Surprisingly, this has had some adverse effects on our ability to get them to breed in captivity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "threat".
The adverse effects of the drought, and the fact that both farmers had to sell their crops for a much lower price than in previous years, inevitably meant that John and Peter's relationship broke down.
The adverse conditions in which the prisoners were held included extremes of temperature: hot in the summer and bitterly cold in the winter.
The adverse effects of smoking on the heart are well known, but a new research has revealed that it can also have an adverse effect on skin.
HIV attacks your immune system, the system your body uses to fight off illnesses, such as colds and the flu. It can also cause a type of cancer called 'KS' or 'Kaposi's Sarcoma'.
The other adverse factor is the number of people who are denied access to higher education because of poverty and its attendant problems such as lack of information.
Most of the adverse physical effects of smoking are linked directly to respiratory illness and cancer.
The adverse weather conditions in the final days of the hunt are believed to be the cause.
However the adverse effects of the drugs were severely debilitating, and while some patients did see their conditions alleviated, others' condition worsened, with many developing diseases they didn't have before.
The adverse effects of the increasing amount of criminal behavior included urban decay and a constant fear of being attacked or even killed.
His health had suffered severely from the adverse conditions he experienced during both his imprisonment and forced labor.
Some of the most adverse effects of pollution are on our lungs.
The most adverse of these recent conditions were the decline in farm sizes and increase in mortgages faced by farmers.
However, if you are unfortunate enough to be in an area struck by an earthquake, for example one of the many earthquakes that have afflicted cities such as Los Angeles or Kobe, then you will know that the experience can be most adverse.
The adverse effects of eating too much junk food on your health have been well documented.
They are extremely adverse to anything that might be considered official, especially when it might involve filling in forms or undergoing medical tests.
The adverse effects of the Second World War led to several temporary trade agreements between nations.
The adverse effects of the deforestation were only noticed two decades later when soil erosion reached epidemic proportions.


#advocate

A spokesperson from Greenpeace says that the nuclear industry is committing euthanasia on an "illness that need not necessarily lead to death."
In the seventeenth century, Galileo was an advocate of the sun-centered solar system. He believed that the sun was at the centre of a mathmatical formula that described the motion of the planets around it.
Although he hasn't won a Pulitzer prize yet, I think the fact that he has been nominated for one for his journalism implies that he is an excellent reporter.
Martin Luther was a prominent 16th-century Protestant religious leader and advocate for church reform.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'anomaly'.
John Snow, a British physician and advocate of improved public-health measures, is best known for proving that a contamination in the water supply of the Soho district of London was responsible for the epidemic of cholera there in 1854.
However, women's advocates pointed out that the new laws could prevent women from getting their child support in a timely manner.
The crime cause advocate didn't think that your brother would be found guilty.
A: In fact, I have never understood why I had to pay anything for the state to send out a team of people to assess my property and suggest ways in which I could make more money from it.
Many of the American colonists advocated the idea of independence, however only a few were prepared to identify themselves openly as revolutionaries.
It is safe to say that the majority of Umzimvubu's citizens do not agree with the ANC's aims and would not advocate violence as a means to achieving them.
Under particular economic and social conditions, individual freedom can actually be detrimental to collective action, therefore, institutions are needed to 'constrain' the free actions of individuals in order to prevent the unraveling of society.
Laws governing the use of marijuana for medical purposes have become more common in recent decades; advocates of such laws say that people who are suffering from diseases such as AIDS, cancer or multiple sclerosis can be relieved of their pain via smoking marijuana, and
Professor: The judge questioned the psychologist about her reasons for leaving and suggested she might be bitter because he believed she had abandoned her patients.
I was hoping that you might be able to advocate inside the company for the new project, or at least get me a meeting with some higher-ups.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'arrogance'.
A fifteen-year-old French girl who had become a well-known advocate of women's rights,was refused permission to take her college entrance exams, on the grounds that she was female.
The idea of woman's rights was first advocated by the English writer Mary Wollstonecraft in the eighteenth century.
The Animal Liberation Front is an organization that advocates violence in individual acts in order to prevent the abuse and killing of animals.
In the 19th century, the old system of imprisonment for debt was also done away with, and attempts to improve the condition of prisoners were made.
The 1960's saw the rise of a group of outspoken advocates for the right to have an abortion.
Quite frankly I am not an advocate of the death penalty at all.
A linguistic term that refers to a part of speech whose main job is to describe something, rather than to act as another part of speech, such as the word "very" in the sentence, "The snow was very deep."
The trial of Socrates has been interpreted as a clash between the advocate of metaphysical naturalism and the advocate of moral relativism.
The government has denied accusations that it is a police state that routinely violates human rights and engages in widespread torture of prisoners, and has instead asserted that it is a fair and free democracy where the rule of law and human rights are respected and everyone is
Since the beginning of their training, doctors have been taught that it is better to let nature take its course, and not risk harm to themselves by attempting to treat a corpse.
Secondary schooling is the main focus of this proposal. While it is true that primary schooling must be completed in order for a person to become truly educated, secondary schooling is the next step to becoming job ready and advocate for a productive society.
The black soldiers had fought bravely for their country, but were still not given the vote, while other Americans who had not even been in combat, like men with accidents that prevented them from enlisting or cowards who got sick on sight of
An advocate is a person who speaks or writes in favor of a particular thing.
None of the women's rights advocates won seats in parliament.
In the courts, the barrister acts as an advocate for the client in criminal cases and as a barrister advocates for his or her client in civil cases.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'empiricist'.
The "Encyclopædia Britannica" advocates the use of the ampersand in alphabetizing.
Martin Luther King Jr. is perhaps the best-known advocate of civil disobedience in United States history.
During the 16th century, many Europeans advocated exploration and colonization of Africa. (The word you're looking for is advocate)
The worker's movement was always a broad alliance of people of different social and political persuasions, from anarchists and progressives to Christians and conservatives. The only factor they had in common was that they advocated for the rights of workers.
The first step in the university's new program was to recruit more faculty members and support staff.
The only person to stand up for Dreyfus was the politician Emile Zola, who wrote an open letter
One of the reasons that there are so few women in the field of law is that they are not encouraged to be advocates from an early age.
Humanism is a philosophy which values human welfare, rationality, and progress.
She was known as an advocate for the poor of the countryside.
The lawyer was an advocate for the poor.
In the first decade of the eighteenth century, the government passed the
"The passing of the Follen Law in 1847 which was to make Massachusetts the first ever compulsory education system in America and her advocate Thomas Kane who also played a major role in the drafting of the law."
The young criminal lawyer pleaded with the jury to show some mercy to his client, a man on trial for stabbing his unfaithful wife to death.
Galileo was tried and silenced by the Catholic Church for 30 years because he advocated the Copernican theory, that placed the sun, not the earth as the center of the universe.
These present themselves as wolves in sheep's clothing, dangerous advocates of extreme freedom who would plunge the world into anarchy.
You then ask Jennifer for a sentence with the word 'either', to which she replies "Either you or your opponent can begin by making an opening statement."
The philosopher advocated a strong central government controlling education and the economy.
The course for which the student is requesting transfer credit is an alternative to the required courses in English Composition I and English Composition II.
The main advocate of this approach was Thomas Hobbes, who believed that humanity's natural state was one of war, and so in the interest of each individual's self-defense, people contracted to set up a sovereign powerful enough to protect them.
The women's rights movement started in the United States in 1848 with a speech by suffragette Lucy Stone who became known as an advocate for women's rights.
Doctor who advocated the use of a sugar and water solution as a cure for dehydration died of Cholera in 1854
Although the Siberian Railway, from Perm to Vladivostok, was constructed in 1891-99, it was not until 1907 that important traffic began to flow along it, and even then its principal traffic was not railway traffic but a flow
Loners might have made competent computer technicians, but they were no match for the communal spirit that prevailed at Solitary Utilities, Incorporated , so Gillette hired as many engineers as he could find.
Despite their extensive and distinguished credentials as observers, documenters and researchers of the Holocaust, both men have been harshly criticised by many Jews for not having done enough to "save" the Jews under their care.
Dice-throwing was, however, a much more honest and straightforward practice than the priesthoods' manipulating of faith and superstition to advocate their own power.
The word first appears as a legal term in English around 1618.
In the United States, a nation founded on the ideal of freedom and equality for all, the battle against homophobia continues to this day.
The patient's advocate told the judge that his client wasn't financially able to pay for a retrial.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'attach'.
First, we are to examine the most common form of a fallacy of relevance: an inadequate definition. The conflation of the terms "definition" and "explanation" is a common source of this fallacy.
It is our intention to provide a liberal arts education for all and to prepare our students to be the leaders of the future.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "perceive".
You can see that he did not particularly enjoy discussing the matter.
The Victorian middle classes were noted for their prudery: it is a striking example of the hypocrisy of Victorianism that this most prudish of centuries also gave birth to the first outspoken advocates of birth control.
The Nazis advocated a form of fascism that was based particularly on the belief that a country's size and power are the deciding factors in whether it is great or not.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'epithet'.
Jane Addams, one the most prominent advocates of labor rights at the turn of the century, was sympathetic to socialism.
In those places where corruption doesn't take over, an independent body to investigate police is beneficial to monitor their activity and prevent abuse of power.
Many of the politicians who had been advocating an attack on Iraq from 1998 onwards were now claiming that war was never their first choice or actively demanding its occurrence.
Yet throughout his life he remained steadfastly uninterested in - even averse to - the fine details of political programs.
There were no written texts in English before the Norman Conquest that advocate medieval theories of balance of power.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'sacrifice'.
The slave-traders argued that the Africans were savages who seized people on the coast and shipped them off to a life of slavery.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'underlying'.
A statesman and philosopher of the Enlightenment, he was a prominent figure in the American and French revolutions.
"There are no slaves, no lower class, no poor people in the Rainbow Dimension. There are simply those who see as theöy do, and those who don't."
I have learned a lot from the writings of past thinkers such as Bertrand Russell and Jean-Paul Sartre who were both advocates of Existentialism.
Eleanor Roosevelt was an advocate for the poor and human rights.
Many of the politicians and professional people who worked in the shipyards were outspoken advocates of American independence.
One law that was passed during this time came under much criticism, the Sedition Act of 1918, which outlawed
An advocate is a person who speaks out in favor of a particular idea or cause.
In fact, the suffragette movement in England has been steadily losing support over the past few years mainly due to their increasingly violent methods of advocating Women's rights.
The Native American community in Boston is small and, more importantly, not the main object of what one might call a land grab, as opposed to, say, the situation with the Narragansett tribe.
"Equality of opportunity for all, and special advantage for none,
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'advocate'.
The Council of Ash'arites was a group of Muslim theologians who advocated the ideas of the theologian Abu'l-Hasan al-Ash'ari.
"We do not seek to destroy the old, but to construction a new," Tom said to the cheering crowd, his eyes filled with tears of joy, "a better future for humanity."
Physicians in the United States are advocates of a nationwide system of health insurance.
The power of the National Assembly and then the power of the Jacobin club slowly eroded as Robespierre, Marat and Danton all fell from power and were ultimately killed during the periods of terror.
A critical reform advocate, she makes it her mission to fight for the rights of people with mental illnesses.
He is an advocate of patients' rights and has a lot of political clout.
In the United States, support for both sides of the argument can be found in the writings of the founding fathers. Indeed James Madison, who was very influential at the formation of U.S.
The book also contains a chapter from a well-known civil rights advocate arguing the case for racial integration.
Abigail Adams was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States and an advocate for independence.
I certainly don't agree with those who advocate a military solution to the problem.
In the late 15th century the Italian painter Sandro Botticelli created a famous painting depicting the story of Valentine.
The philosopher's role was to advise the government and he was expected to be socially 'enlightened', but not to really advocate any specific policies.
I think the most useful strategy would be to hire an additional security consultant to advocate our position at the meeting.
He believed that women should not be only the protector of childhood, but should also advocate wider political and social rights.


#alacrity

He responded to the advances with alacrity and wrote a book about the experience.
The troops reported in and went to work with alacrity.
With alacrity, the student read through the stack of books for a second time to try to absorb as much information as possible.
Melih's alacrity impressed his supervisors, who gave him more responsibilities and projects.
With alacrity, I accepted the offer.
With alacrity, the eagerly-welcomed volunteers are pulled inside the safety of the hovering airship.
The newly emancipated slaves had the alacrity to seize land and farms for themselves.
The King was startled by the soldier's alacrity.
Lysander impatiently awaited the class to begin with alacrity.
He accepted the invitation with alacrity.
The other soldiers looked at him with alacrity.
1. Cheerful promptness 2. speed or quickness
However, she made the suggestion with alacrity.
The large, enthusiastic audience showed alacrity in helping the survivors.
Sir Francis Drake is famed as a mariner of great courage.
"I'd do it with alacrity," he squeaked in his high-pitched voice and ran off down the corridor.
The militia's quick capitulation had been in marked contrast to the alacrity with which they had embraced the revolt just two years earlier.
A cartoon from the webcomic "VG Cats" shows two gamers playing a first-person shooter game. Outside the window of their cabin, another character can be seen being mauled by a giant monster.
She accepted the offer with alacrity and took the first available flight to America.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "skepticism".
Those who were able-bodied were forced to work with even greater alacrity than the infirm.
"Thank you, gentlemen, your answers have been most illuminating," Mr. Logue said with alacrity.
Nina was certainly a helpful guide, and her enthusiasm for the project was unmatched;
The team that brought about the atomic bomb project managed to do so with alacrity in response to a surprise attack on two of our airships.
The first edition of the book sold out immediately, much to the publisher's relief, and to everyone's surprise it won the coveted National Book Award for 2008.
The class was dismissed under his usual alacrity.
And today the teams that the government will develop new technology with the alacrity they once developed weapons.
His success in social situations [alacrity] was quite remarkable.
‘I only wish he'd show the same alacrity when it comes to actually answering his phone.'
The class showed no signs of reluctance or alacrity for their work, they accepted it as their duty to help the new students.
With alacrity, she accepted his invitation to dance and seemed to enjoy herself thoroughly.
The new recruits, screaming defiance, rushed up the slopes with alacrity, while the panda tanks rolled forward and began opening fire.
There was an immediate and enthusiastic response to Weber's leadership, which surprised him with its alacrity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'utilitarian'.
However, the public's reaction to news of the law was one of quiet approval coupled with alacrity: apparently, people were quite happy to see remnants of old superstitions swept away.
"The Italian government's willingness to cooperate with the Allies was without alacrity," the professor said.
Despite the fact that it was now illegal, alchemy continued to flourish since its practitioners were able to exploit loopholes in the law and increasingly turned from trying to make gold to trying to find a universal cure-all drug.
During the period from December 1861 to March 1862 he wrote fourteen a
The enthusiasm and alacrity with which the Church leaders embraced this decision suggests that it was likely they who had prompted Woytila to initiate it.
Although there are countless examples of religious injustice through the ages, the major reason for the Reformation was the growing reluctance of the Catholic Church to respond to monetary incentives or request for a marriage annulment.
In the early hours of August 24, Gladys prepared herself for her big moment with some alacrity.
With alacrity, Steve signed it and then asked you what you would like for him to sing.
He thanked me with alacrity and asked for your phone number.
And so the team of executioners took him away, laughing and joking with each other as they went and blissfully ignorant of the fact that their days were also numbered.
With alacrity, the graduate students discuss their research projects over lunch in the cafeteria.
The heir apparent to the throne showed a great alacrity for learning; he assimilated knowledge like a dried sponge absorbing water.
The team of scientists worked with alacrity to test the hypothesis, and they found the theory proved correct.
Victor was excitedly waving the signed permission slip, as if he were a preschooler anxious to show everything that he had learned that day.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing' antecedent'.
Kant's "Critique of Pure Reason"
You ask the professor for sentence that contains the word 'ratiocination'.
The joke caused the audience to laugh with alacrity.
At the end of term Matthias and Hans were awarded a prize for being the two most diligent students in the class. They received their gifts with alacrity.
The notices on the board had been written in a large scrawling hand, and he read them out to us with great alacrity.
In the speech, he thanked everyone for their suggestions but said that he would try to deal with the matter in his own way, with alacrity.
In the beginning of the twelfth century, Europe wasn't a very pleasant place. Dozens of rulers of various sizes struggled for land and power while brutal feudal systems made life even worse for the peasants.
The new safety measures were introduced with great alacrity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'rebellious'.
I made the request with alacrity, and very soon the man returned with a glass of the most exquisite red wine.
The Librarian accepted the documents with alacrity.
The U.S. government decided to implement the policy with alacrity.
The new scholarship program has been well-received with alacrity by the student body.
The new recruits, although unhappily still motivated by money, carried out their orders with alacrity.
"And yet, despite the magnitude of events taking place, Verloc's manner was unusually free from that alacrity with which men speak when before a listener their confidence inspires."
With alacrity, he took out his comb and for the first time in eleven years began to comb his hair.
Barry to test the bridge as fast as an athlete could run across it.
With alacrity, Gladys copied the painting and returned it with many thanks.
With some alacrity, they entered the tunnels.
None of the workers questioned showed any signs of alacrity
More than 90% of the people who got and scored the flu shot had no serious side effects, but a few exhibited alacrity in getting sick.
"The Winds of Change are blowing through this country with a lot of alacrity", said the prime minister in his New Years speech.
The volunteers worked with alacrity and soon the task was completed.
Only one of them seems keen to continue the discussion; most of them have lost interest and wander off with a great show of boredom, or even alacrity.
Elizabeth enthusiastically began preparing for the voyage, being very much looking forward to visiting Jakarta and learning about life in what was at the time a Dutch colony.
"Hello," she said with alacrity.
As parliament debated the issue of the war with Iraq, there was an undercurrent of dissent among both left and right-wing politicians.
Most of the girls in the troupe were between the ages of eight and thirteen, some had already developed opinions of their own and wanted to go home, but they stuck it out for the alacrity of the applause.
With alacrity, the soldiers got off their seats and started to prepare for the bonfire.
It was a taxing ordeal for him, but he managed it with alacrity.
It was originally agreed that all of the hostages would be released but with the alacrity that Sir Anthony sheepishly displayed to compromise, it was decided to release only half.
I'll have the field hands prepare the coach with alacrity.
I needed to go home and type up my notes from the lab with alacrity.
With alacrity, George handed Sophie the contract.
The public reaction was one of enthusiasm and eagerness, which soon turned to apprehension and alarm as reports came in of the restrictions and privations imposed on the city.
The people have responded to the news with great alacrity and will probably welcome the newcomers (who are, of course, actually closely related to them) when they return.
His acceptance of the position showed alacrity [*=eagerness] that I had hoped for.
The mayor readily agreed to our demands with alacrity when he learned that his officers were also among the damned.
The children sang the song with alacrity.
He performed his duties with alacrity, and in less than a week he had nearly doubled the library's holdings.
"And before you play, young lady, I want you to practice with alacrity."
Stalin perceived the Germans' request for an alliance as an opportunity to create a buffer zone in which the USSR would have alacrity.
Despite his desire for alacrity, he did not want any execution to be taken place until he had signed a paper concerning it.
"Why is it that you want to move with such alacrity?"
The newly promoted sergeant had been assigned this supervisory role with alacrity, and was clearly happier dealing with his former subordinates than he had been as their equal.
The latest fashion boots displayed her husband's alacrity for shopping to an embarrassing degree.
And increasing the flow of money into politics increases the power of the financial sector thus increasing their political influence or what is described as the increase in "alacrity with which powerful interest groups help their allies and attack their enemies".
He read the article with enthusiasm and accepted it with alacrity.
The journalists exhibited alacrity in their research when they discovered a scandal concerning the president.
It has been suggested that the reason for the ascendancy of the new tonal languages in urban centers was due to their being more expressive, and thus enabling ideas to be transmitted with alacrity among the population.
He signed the letter with such alacrity that I couldn't help laughing.
When you and your family arrived in the promised land with Moses and the Israelites, you were glad to oblige with such alacrity.
With the help of the Grand Alliance, Dutch forces managed to push Spain out of the United Provinces in 1648 and with the conclusion of the Peace of Westphalia in 1648, the United Provinces enjoyed unprecedented freedom of religion


#alleged

The American military, which had been accused of using excessive force against protestors, has defended its actions.
One of the alleged perpetrators of the 9/11 attack is currently being tried in the U.S.
The argument that tools and other artifacts found near the fossil remains of our early human ancestors were their actual tools is an allegation for which there is no evidence.
The most prominent of those alleged to have escaped execution were Guy Fouquet and Laval.
It has also been alleged that the Romans used to mix juice from crushed beech nuts and honey to create a primitive form of beer, administered to the soldiers for its mildly intoxicating effects.
The biggest "alleged" risk to a woman's health, is the misconception that vaccines cause autism.
He was a suspected war criminal and was alleged to have committed atrocities in World War II.
There were allegations of electoral fraud during the last presidential elections.
The method the alleged hijackers used to board the planes was to present reduced-price airline tickets, known as "pushbacks", purchased from a scalper.
However, these are just alleged sightings, and there is no actual evidence that any of them are true.
It's always dangerous to pay too much attention to the allegations of an opposing political party.
It is alleged that the Mongol Khan, Khubilai Khan, sent the ship to explore as a way of peacefully opening up Japan to trade.
The topsoil in the form of dust and sand that was picked up by these storms turned daytime into a milky white-out, and the alleged "rain" froze any and all living creatures caught out in it.
The changes in the law have had the effect of changing the role of police in the United Kingdom from enforcers of law to that of social workers, with all the alleged benefits to society.
"Alleged" was a seventeenth century English navigator and pirate, best known for his association with the "Brethren of the Coast", a loose association of pirates.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'infrastructure'.
The Brown Mountain lights are an alleged phenomenon, a set of unexplained lights often cited as one of Australia's best known mysteries.
However, in the past 50 years, research has led to the popularization of a rival explanation, the alleged migration of humans from Africa.
The police think he committed the alleged crime.
A trial will decide whether the pair are guilty of the alleged crime.
"The difference between an alleged discovery and a real one lies in the
The alleged theft was a very complicated and elaborate scheme.
The British had long used the notorious Irish police force called the Royal Irish Constabulary, or simply the Royal Cops, to enforce their authority.
Although the evidence is not strictly 'admissible' in court,the alleged crimes were severe enough to cause concern.
At age fifty, alleged spy Klaus Fuchs was arrested and sentenced to fourteen years in prison for espionage on behalf of the Soviet Union.
I am here to listen to the alleged abuse that you say my client visited upon you.
The government claimed, after the recession, that it would implement policies to prevent further damage to the economy.
Despite the fact that he was tried and executed for treason, many people believe that Ableukis was actually innocent of the crimes of which he was alleged.
The alleged leader of the operation, a seventy-year-old with no teeth called Baddun, was shot in the leg and taken into custody.
George Washington is an alleged victim of the conspiracy that was allegedly behind many of the American presidents' assassinations, known as the JFK assassination conspiracy theory.
The most controversial allegation in his most recent book is the idea that many governments, particularly democracies, use direct marketing techniques to keep themselves in power, such as using fear-based or patriotic messages.
The alleged murderer was executed yesterday.
In 1960 the border between Angola, Congo and Zambia was settled by a international agreement but it still had to be enforced, especially the more remote stretches of it.
The man who designed Australia's health system, Dr. Peter Sinkins, has recently been accused of diverting hundreds of millions of dollars over a sixteen-year period for his own use.
The trial of Ned Kelly, Australia's most famous outlaw, had all the ingredients of a classic Western: The son of an Irish immigrant farmer versus the encroaching reach of the Australian government, a gunman taking justice into his own hands, and
The man had allegedly kidnapped and murdered several young girls before killing himself.
Treaties of Westphalia have been called the most important treaties in European history, and alleged to be based on a balance of power.
Louis and Antoinette from the first, had been the alleged targets of the attack.
The U.S. military has identified hundreds of alleged Iraqi arms factories and research facilities that it plans to bomb in the coming years, according to a copy of a U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff list obtained by NBC News.
His alleged actions were contrary to the constitution.
Both the prosecutor and defense attorney alleged that their arguments were irrefutable.
The book's author has made what some have alleged are racist slurs.
However, he has remained silent on the more serious allegation of fraud in his pliot design.
In 1066, England was under attack by a large fleet of Danish ships, which were alleged to be under orders from King Harald III of Norway.
While he was exiled, he wrote a poem called "Chronica Regum Britannia" (Chronicles of the Kings of Britain), which included an alleged earlier history of Britain as told by the magician Merlin.
The United States of America was founded on liberty and freedom, as the alleged home of the free and land of the brave.
The United States invaded Iraq despite alleged weapons of mass destruction that were never found.
What is the truth behind the murders? Was it, as the prosecution alleged, a simple robbery that went wrong, or was it, as you claim, self-defense?
The reparations were to take the form of free shipments of German products, among them coal, iron and potash, to Britain.
The so-called "Nazis" were a small, radical political party that [Allegedly] committed numerous treasonous acts against the government during our nation's time of need.
The German philosopher Martin Heidegger was one of the most important and influential thinkers of the twentieth century, but his reputation has been badly damaged by allegations that he was...
However this allegation proved to be incorrect since the newspaper came out on May 20th, which was two days after the assassination.
The factory owner was under investigation for alleged tax evasion and illegal dumping.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inadequate'.
The trial of Anders Briev is an alleged war criminal. He stands accused of complicity with the Nazis in their systematic extermination of the Jewish people.
The alleged ringleader of the September 11th attacks, Khalid Sheik Mohammed, will not stand trial with his co-defendants because he was tortured 183 times in order to get him to testify.
Alleged sightings of the Loch Ness monster have been reported for nearly a thousand years.
It was alleged that he was killed outside his home by A and his body taken inside.
The trial against the alleged terrorists attracted considerable attention from both domestic and international press.
Despite the recent increase in the number of women in the workplace and the alleged trend toward gender equality, many males are still unhappy.
The teachers' union has alleged that the college is using the economic downturn as an excuse to shrink the faculty, weaken the curriculum and increase profits.
The Einsatzgruppen (German for "task forces", also known as mobile death squads) were S.S.
Alleged Russian hackers, 12 Russian spies, Greenflies, Semtex explosives and an underground tunnel connecting the Czechoslovakian and Soviet legations in Pest...
The alleged corruption within FIFA is just another sign of the moral decay of the ruling classes.
Despite the terrorist's alleged interest in disarmament, the government's offer was refused.
The main thing that angered the people about the war was the fact that we were now supporting a corrupt and allegedly illegitimate government.
A large part of the museum is dedicated to alleged cases of human-animal transformation, including the infamous cult leader Shaver, who claimed that our planet is ruled by bugs.
Although the Nazis are usually identified by most people as Fascists, the Italian Fascist movement was more closely aligned philosophically with National Socialism.
The rioters claim that the undercover policemen gave them permission to torch the vehicle.
The movie questioned whether alleged brainwave en
For all the importance attached to it in popular accounts, for the British troops at Yorktown, there was no siege. There was no armada of ships bombarding the American positions with cannons as depicted in numerous motion pictures.
The Germans made an alleged chemical attack on the enemy's position yesterday.
The United States government has never recognized the alleged independence of Texas.
The trial was an attempt by the victors of World War One to try
The crimes are racially motivated, but the defense points out that Mr. Demir's alleged words are inadmissible unless they were spoken in the presence of a government official.
It is alleged that the government has been involved in insider trading for years but nothing has ever been proved.
However, the supposed co-reign of this Canute in England has never been accepted by serious historians.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'prior'.
The storm had a particularly severe effect on towns on the coast, some of which were almost completely flattened by the alleged 100-foot waves.
Tiger lungs are smaller than those of lions, but they still contain more tissue than is necessary for a creature of the tiger's size.
The Bush administration has made the alleged connection between the September 11th attacks and Iraq their casus belli.
The Italian astronomer and physicist Galileo Galilei made several astronomical observations using the latest telescopes, including the observation of Saturn's rings and the Milky Way.
There are allegations that the military assisted drugs got into our clients' product in Mexico.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'liberate'.
Most of the alleged troublemakers claimed they had just been singing some of the songs which were popular during the 1960s.
Hugo has been accused of stealing the design of his flying machine from his former employee, Gustave Trouvé.
The population of Ireland is alleged by some to have the highest incidents of human carnivory.
Lawyers for the company that owned the alleged defective equipment argued that stronger safety regulations wouldn't have prevented the accident.
The list of allegations against the defendant included receiving bribes, fraud and tax evasion.
The claimed relationship between the Norman and Plantagenet royal families led France to claim the English throne.
There was no evidence for the alleged poison.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'unanimous'.
After two years in office, the man elected on an "abolish poverty" platform was about to be impeached for corrupt dealings with a notorious financier and alleged war criminal.
The US has alleged that the Pacific nation of Nuevo Atlanta is involved in making and distributing both methamphetamines and illegal drugs.
He said, "While the trial has led to the arrest of several guilty men, the allegations of torture must be a matter of concern to all governments."
The ruling DNA party insists the evidence that they have uncovered is not an alleged forgery.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'combination'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'agenda'.
William Jones, the English philologist, made the so-called 'Alleged' invention of the Sanskrit language in 1786.
The two most influential economists of the eighteenth century, Adam Smith and David Hume, both Scottish nationals, substantially supported the idea that the free market was not only an efficient mechanism for allocating resources but for developing individual life opportunities and that government taxation resulted


#amplify

The developments of gunpowder and the printing press amplified the impact on culture of these events.
By their very nature, technologies of communication amplify the power of the media class.
The availability of news reports about riots increased the number of people within those cities rioting, as it served to amplify the messages of dissent.
He could no longer count on radio and television to amplify his words as in years past.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'efficiency'.
"They amplified specific sounds and the human larynx began to change form accordingly," Professor Marcus added excitedly.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reproductive'.
The name of the game for the tape industry these days seems to be to see who can get the most bass and how to amplify it.
By the beginning of the 1920s, the electrical industry was beginning to employ electronic devices to amplify or switch their signals, rather than use mechanical or manual methods.
The transistor is a most remarkable device, and it has revolutionized the electronics industry by its simplicity and its promise to amplify even the weakest of electrical signals.
The development of money and writing are moments during prehistory when human culture made a sudden leap forward, or amplified.
In the late-15th century the invention of the printing press helped to amplify the problem by making literature much more accessible.
Diesel engines cannot be heard a mile away, as can gasoline engines, so noisy fossil fuels cars can also run on electricity, which can be produced by renewable sources such as wind turbines and solar panels, which will then amplify the amount of energy
The invention of the printing press was designed to amplify the reach of the written word and advance learning.
The development of a new financial instrument in the form of credit cards has considerably amplified this tendency.
After the invention of the phonograph, the radio and the telephone which amplified and transmitted sound, and then the television, which amplified and transmitted vision.
The politicians felt that encouraging all the people to read would amplify the voice of the people allowing them to criticize officials, something which most bureaucrats wanted to avoid.
The ability to amplify sound has been around a long time, but it became truly practical with the mass production of electronic transistors in the mid-twentieth century.
The invention of radio was followed by the invention of the television, which amplified the power of the spoken word and allowed even more detailed vision into far-off places and events.
They were amplified by the use of propaganda and powerful weapons such as machine guns which allowed a few soldiers to kill large numbers of enemy troops.
The massive increase in technology of the 20th century amplified people's ability to inflict damage across the entire world.
The invention of transistors in the twentieth century amplified the speed at which information was processed, leading to the processing becoming instant.
Professor: In fact, many social critics see the new "muscular Christianity" as a way of amplifying the stereotype of the male hero.
The invention of electronics made it much easier to amplify and transmit voices or music.
While DNA testing enabled the police to amplify tiny traces of biological evidence gathered at a crime scene,
Nietzsche's work is difficult to understand and needs to be amplified by looking at his use of language.
The noise from the jet engines was amplified by the microphone.
Jacobins, the most radical element of the French Revolution, wished to amplify the power of the lower classes to bring about a more equal society.
But these rules had never been written down; instead, they had to be interpreted and amplified by judges in special cases.
The government has announced a plan to amplify border security by building fences and walls along the border.
He knew the new site would amplify his power to dangerous levels.
In the twenty-first century, popular music has amplified the problems of society rather than providing a way for people to forget about them.
Any attempt to amplify a middle-of-the-road position got drowned out by the stridency of the radicals on both sides.
The larger concepts like empire or liberty or civilization are mere abstractions, and every abstraction tends to die unless it is constantly fed new blood in the form of further abstractions. The process feeds on itself, multiplying into ever more complex abstract entities....
"Why amplify sounds if you do not understand them?"
The invention of the printing press not only spread information and ideas rapidly, it also improved the ability to read, as it was the first mass production of written material which meant that texts could be made more accessible to a wider audience.
The internet, a system of interconnecting computers, greatly amplified the speed and efficiency of such exchanges of information.
It could be used to detect the presence of very small amounts of ultra-hazardous materials, even if they had been amplified in volume by several orders of magnitude.
He didn't just use the results of other people's research - he managed to amplify the flea's ability to detect griss on a thousand-fold.
The invention of the phonograph and microphone caused a great expansion in communications that amplified human abilities.
It was one of the first electronic games and its popularity would amplify that by the late 1970s.
Mendel's findings were ignored for thirty years until they were revived and greatly amplified by the English biologist William Bateson.
The invention of the printing press helped amplify Gutenberg's religious viewpoints, but it was also able to spread other ideas that conflicted with his own, such as the Protestant Reformation.
The aim of the project is to amplify and clarify the principles of the U.N. Charter and preparing recommendations that specify how these principles may best be implemented in the fields of state activities and private international relations.
In the second model, called "RNA-first," scientists hypothesize that an "RNA world" existed before DNA and proteins, and that this original biological system may have had the ability to copy itself.
In the 1780s, the Continental Congress in America gave its approval to the formation of a company to build a chain of magazines running along the Appalachia Mountains from Kentucky to New York (the Blue Ridge Mountains were too far east to be protected
It was the invention of the printing press, rather than the scientific method, that first amplified human knowledge and contributed to the Renaissance.
If a machine could be created that could amplify brain waves then it might be possible to increase the intelligence of less intelligent creatures.
How will the government know where you are at all times if it does indeed implement this newest anti-terrorism law that requires your name, birth date, and social security number be attached to every email or letter you send out.
In the future more and more human activities will be able to be automated, as aspect of driving for example.
The new model of the human brain allows scientists to amplify faint electrochemical signals from the brain, which can then be analysed and deciphered into thoughts.
The invention of transistors and then later, integrated circuits,
The invention of the printing press by Gutenberg in 1455 was one of those inventions which dramatically amplified the spread of ideas, and hence played a role in causing the Renaissance, Reformation and Scientific Revolution.
The invention of the transistor was critical in amplifying the power of computers.
What's more, modern technology has amplified our destructive potential a millionfold.
The invention of the Gutenberg press was to accelerate the commercialization of the written word by increasing the number of copies that could be made of a single text, thus lowering its production cost and widening its potential audience.
Raves are popular events in which people, typically teenagers and young adults, meet at an agreed location, typically a field or disused warehouse, late at night to dance to electronic music.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "discontent".
Amplification requires a "gel" in the test tube.
Technology gives us the means to communicate with people around the world instantaneously, but as we all know, this technology can also be used to spread lies and propaganda that endanger our national security.
He had used amplification, both electronic and viral, to turn a single errant reporter into a horde that nearly destroyed his company.
The sound amplification system consisted of a series of alcoves in the wall with tape recorders in them.
The international economy in the 1920s increasingly was based on the mass production of standardized goods, and in such an economy,
The invention of the printing press by Gutenberg around 1450 allowed writings to be spread widely for the first time.
When sound vibrations are converted to electrical signals by the microphone, the audio signal is amplified so that it is strong enough to trigger the conversion of other signals in other electrical components.
The Rolling Stones achieved a greater degree of popularity than any other rock and roll band before them, and their "stadium rock" concerts amplified the musical format of rock music.
The possibility of being able to amplify a small deflection into a much bigger and, hopefully, more successful invasion was too tempting for [continued...]
It was a marvelous and marvellous invention that amplified sounds and music a hundred times.
A study in Nature reports that the gene FOXP2, which has been associated with the ability to speak, was found in a Neanderthal fossil.
The invention of the printing press in 1450 served to greatly amplify the church's power.
The advent of the mass media and the mass production of books and other print in the late medieval period led to an explosion of written works: more were published in the 17th century than in all previous centuries combined.
The ability to amplify messages of all kinds allows us to communicate rapidly, but it has also increased the levels of background noise in our lives.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Utopia'.
This irrational, unconscious fear of the unknown led to events such as the Salem witch trials, in which many people were executed based on illogical conclusions.
Amplifiers are devices that increase the magnitude of a signal; they're essential to today's electronic world.
The problem for suffragettes was that whil
At the turn of the century, radio was a new invention, and, during World War I, the government did not want the enemy to even be able to amplify our transmissions.
They also claimed that the sonic waves amplified whatever emotions you felt and sent them back to you as tactile sensations, but they still disagreed over whether the sensations were primarily physical or mental.
In the right circumstances, the printing press, invented in the mid-15th century, was used to circulate information and ideas on a large scale.
New technology such as the telegraph and railroad would amplify the power of the state, while also increasing its ability to exercise that power.
The police used their new floods to amplify their domination over the people.
This was the beginning of the industrial revolution, an era when man began to use machines to amplify his physical effort.
Noise-cancelling headphones can amplify the ambient sounds that are being played in their internal speakers.
The government's use of an old law that had never been applied in the way it was being applied now, was intended to amplify its anti-terrorism message.
Through formal education our society is able to amplify the abilities of individuals to perform certain tasks or jobs.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'abhorrent'.
They can now amplify sounds to a deafening level, or quiet them to human inaudibility.
The conservative's view of technology, in contrast the liberals', is that it should be used to amplify aspects of human nature.
The story of the printing press begins with a Chinese invention known as paper and an Italian refinement called moveable type, which was later perfected by Johannes Gutenberg of Mainz, Germany.
Later in the century, electrical technology was able to amplify the ability to communicate across vast distances
This will enable them to amplify their powers and become much more formidable fighters.
The medieval Church used fear as a means of controlling the masses, and the tool it employed to this aim was the Inquisition.
A system of amplifiers has been set up to make the speakers voices boom out loud and clear over the whole village.
They believed that the ability to write, which had been amplifying in importance over the centuries, would be a key factor in the coming struggle between humans and intelligent machines.
Before the discovery of amplification techniques, radio astronomers could only listen to and log the faintest hint of a signal.
It is interesting to note that the term "military intelligence" is a euphemism, because it actually means that the politicians wished to amplify the apparent importance of their own roles in defense matters.
The West became increasingly disillusioned with communism and hostile to it following the Cuban Missile Crisis, when Kennedy discovered that Soviet-backed Cuba had secretly built missile bases capable of targeting large parts of America.
Charles wanted to use the national radio network to amplify his powers.
Since the end of World War II, the United States has used its status as the world's only nuclear power to amplify its influence on the global stage.
It was an extremely important invention because the printing press enabled the reproduction of handwritten books and other documents, which meant that more people had access to them, which in turn meant that the development of science and technology could accelerate, because more people had access


#analogy

"The Russian Revolution of 1917 is to the 20th century what the Glorious Revolution of 1688 was to the 17th," their student reports.
One may consider the triple-range-finder analogy to the human eye: the lens of an analog camera, as well as the human eye, has a range finder that enables you to see things far away as "close"
An analogy is a comparison between two things which helps us better understand the world or a concept.
Professor: The heart, for example, can be thought of as a kind of pump that pushes the blood around the body. In a similar way the magnet moves the magnetic field around within a wire.
An analogy is a comparison between two unlike things that highlights and similarities.
Professor: The main analogy is that just as one can look at a skeleton and know that that individual was a human being and not an ape, despite superficial similarities, so too one can look at the brain of a human being and know it is
"A comparison between two things that are analogous is a useful way of explaining the similarities and differences between them."
The criticism of the anti-abortionists' argument that a human embryo is no different from a fertilized chicken or frog egg is an analogy.
This was like ancient Norsemen building a settlement in North America and calling it Norway.
The ecologists were suggesting that an entire river, containing many important species, could be saved by damming only a portion of it.
The conflict was not dissimilar to the struggles for power between mafia families.
The relationship between European aristocracy and peasants in the Middle Ages is similar to that between masters and slaves in the ancient world.
In the Earth's sea there are many islands, although from satellite photos you may think that there are no islands at all, just brown and green swirls of land and water.
Unfortunately, dissertations involving the gathering of new data are often unpleasant and sometimes dangerous. They must be handled with care; a valuable analogy can be made between the scientist and an onion.
The first example of electronic music was created by Italian physicist, composer, and pianist Luigi Russolo in 1913 when he created his intonarumori or noise intoners.
The show was a perfect analogy of a middle-aged man trying to relive his youth.
The medieval church is often compared to a business corporation, buying and selling indulgences in the marketplace.
It's a bit like saying that since the left side of your body and the right side of your body are controlled by different groups of neurons, which is true, that the left side of your body hates the right side of your body.
However, the ground prepared by the analogy between the superorganism and the human body was fertile, and in retrospect we can say that this was the beginning of the application of ideas of complexity to human society.
First, the atomic theory is used to explain his or her feelings about the use of genetic testing on individual humans. Then, the circumstances under which scientists first used the atomic theory are brought up to explain a second point.
The development of the United States and Britain were very similar, for example, both were founded around the idea of democracy and both had to rely on resources from their respective backyards to fuel the growth of their economy.
The analogy of the hourglass can be taken too far at times, but it is quite valid in comparing past with present in this case.
An analogy is a similarity between two different things.
Analogies are imperfect or similar relationships between things that are otherwise very different.
The most obvious analogy is the relationship between HIV and the human immunodeficiency virus.
The dictators made a useful analogy between the way that a docile infant must be socialized and the way they wished to shape civic responsibility and obedience to authority.
However, I will not attempt an extended analogy between writing computer programs and constructing dams.
You thank the professor and turn off the computer.
It is analogous to a man with hundreds of children deciding to eliminate one of the children for no other reason than that he was angry with the child's mother and wanted to teach her a lesson.
The experience of World War I led to the isolationism that contributed to World War II, a ridiculous analogy since World War II helped bring to an end the kind of European colonial imperialism that had been a constant source of pre-World War I tensions
Unlike some of his predecessors, Charles Darwin was a careful observer, and he noticed that an animal he called the Columbian Ground-Squirrel seemed to be better adapted to dig underground burrows than other ground-squirrels.
The difficulty in comparing democratic political parties to industrial trade unions is that trade unions do not have the same internal hierarchy of the political parties, and therefore cannot be compared to the various wings of a party.
The analogy of the clock, although often erroneously used, actually provides a clearer picture of what the universe is believed to be like currently, and more importantly, in the past.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'fantasy'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "atmosphere".
The situation in the US is a lot like the situation in the Middle East.
It wasn't until the last decades of the eighteenth century that doctors began to wean themselves from their grounding in the theory of the Four Humors and move toward more rational, scientific approaches that accepted that the human body was made up of different organs
One could say that there was a battle of different ideas in the French Revolution as there was an analogy between the political situation then and now.
Professor: Western Europe's infatuation with Arab algebra at this time laid the foundation for the use of algebra in the West.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "opinion".
However, an analogy to computer games in which the gamer continually has to readjust the difficulty level as he or she progresses prevents the formation of an accurate analogy.
The religious beliefs of the Inca were based on analogies with the natural world.
The antechamber is like the waiting room at a doctor's office, but much bigger.
For example, the relationship between US English and British English can be compared to that between American and British English.
The analogy between an atom and a solar system is very useful because it allows us to visualize the different parts of the atom.
Unlike the rather disorganized assortment of unrelated disciplines that social sciences contain, medical sciences have a clear hierarchy.
A letter to a friend in Rome, in which the writer compares the city of Baghdad to an enchanting princess about whom many tales and rumours have been told, but few have witnessed.
The analogy that the biologists
The study of insects, for example, might be useful but is vastly inferior to the study of mammals if you want to understand an analogical degree.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'aspect'.
The ancient Near East was a complex system of astronomy based upon the observation of the night sky in much the same way that an analogy might be made between the solar system and our political system.
The main analogy that is used to describe the relationship between a neuron and a computer is that of an egg and an atom.
In a treatise published in 1517 entitled "De Comparatione Antichristi et Papae", Luther compares the Pope to the Antichrist.
A musical score is similar to a language--it contains instructions that tell you how to play the music.
The movement of the plate tectonics underneath the continents can be compared to the flow of a glacier.
"Life is just like the competitive exams that we try to crack - you study really hard but the results are all dependent on others' whims."
The Earth is an analogy to a human body, the moon is the analogy to the brain.
Personal Space is the invisible security zone we claim around ourselves.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'separate'.
The relationship between America and Britain is one based on the analogy of parent and child.
The closest analogy for the relationship between the new genetic technologies and human nature is the theory of evolution, which states that man is more closely related to apes than to monkeys.
Another way to explain this concept is by using the analogy of an hourglass.
The outflow of American Indians presented Europeans with a valuable opportunity to replace them as major players in the fur trade. This is similar to the way in which the industrial revolution provided an opportunity for the development of the working class.
The English Bill of Rights (1689) uses the analogy of a contract between king and people, whereas the U.S. Constitution begins with the sentence "We the People..."
When a scientist finds an explanation that works for one system, it can be used as an analogy for solving a similar problem in another system.
Nations are like individuals in that both grow from humble origins, enjoy a childhood in which they are relatively free of outside authority, go through an adolescent historical period when they assert their independence, try to conquer their neighbors, face adult problems, and
Although both involve religion, the analogies between the role of the church in England during the medieval period and that of the Communist Party in modern China are not as similar as they may seem.
The analogy between the body and soul of a human and the body and soul of a corporation was a new way of thinking about corporations which enabled businessmen to think of themselves as somehow more than just greedy, ruthless and selfish in their quest for money.
An analogy from a politician is one that is likely to shift with the wind, for example becoming anti-immigration when your party is seen as weak on that issue.
The analogy they drew was to the conditions that allow tumor cells to grow out of control and replicate in a living organism.
The analogy you suggest, that of a building constructed of bricks, is not quite apt because each 'generation' of bricks remains connected to the previous one.
The 18th century is to the 20th century as the 18th century is to the 19th century: this is an analogy the likes of which you need to stop using.
They saw themselves as the innkeepers of a hotel in which Shakespeare and all writers were the guests. They thought it was their job to provide them with very good service and make the environment pleasant so that they could perform their creativity.
The "social contract theory" of the origins of government is just that, a theory. The theory states that those living in a particular geographical region enter into an agreement, or "social contract".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'opinion'.
The nearest analogy to the problem facing the Church is the situation in computer operating systems, where, for example, a single computer may contain two different operating systems, such as Apple's OS X and Apple's earlier classic Mac OS.
The "analogy of the leaves" is a theory proposed by Charles Darwin to explain his theories of natural selection in a way that would be easily understandable to anyone with a basic education.
The analogy of the parliament is misleading: governments are not independent of one another.
The appeal to the Irish government to allow women to have equal access to health care is an analogy for the way in which women need to be able to approach the medical field, not as second-class citizens but as people who deserve the right to
Furthermore, the brain's electrical activity and the neuron's electrochemical signaling are analogous to the electrician and his work.
The closest analogy to the economic situation of the Eastern Bloc after World War 2 is that of a bankrupt business.
There's also a lot of analogy between the fall of the Roman Empire and what is happening in the United States.
You: Professor, I think that's a sufficiency of sentences.
You: Sufficiently.
The distinction between analogies is that in the first case each example shares a linked feature, whereas in the second they share a linked outcome.
The process of the printing press is a good analogy for the development of newspapers.
The theory of plate tectonics is similar to the theory of evolution in that both have been widely accepted.
The Thirty Years' War, which devastated central Europe for decades, was analogous to the infection that's going to destroy the human race if we don't quarantine it now.
For most e-commerce traders, profitability is the holy grail of trading.
The evolution of early humans can be compared to the development of modern day computers.
Walt Disney's cartoons drew a loose analogy between the American West of the nineteenth century and the Wild West showbusiness milieu of the early twentieth century.
However, the anology is somewhat similar to the case of the Saturn V rocket that took man to the moon.
Professor: The relationship between the Catholic Church and the Muslims is very like the relationship between the Catholic Church of England during Henry VIII's time.
The creation of a European constitution is like building a plane while it is in flight.
The analogy I like to use is that the Protestant Reformation was a lot like when Apple created its iPod.
The analogy of an hourglass can be used to explain the structure and composition of a volcano.
The Mayas' ability to predict astronomically events is an analogy to our own ability to predict the stock market collapse.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "naturalization".
The industrial revolution can be compared to building a house.
They soon found that racial classification had no scientific basis, because although humans can be classified into broad races, individuals do not fit into such clear-cut categories.
The way in which the passage makes comparisons between different theories concerning the French revolution and 19th-century social history is similar to the way that a poet uses metaphors.
The analogy that often is used for this situation: imagine that you are reading a book, and some stranger comes along and tears out the last few pages.


#annotate

The basic division between the two branches of anarchism is in their attitudes towards violence and towards Marxism.
He was fascinated by the way in which one note could be added to another to create a simple melody; he realised that such different annotations of music actually implied that all music had a common core of harmony.
If you state exactly what these rules are you are annotating, or listing, them.
It's my considered opinion that the House of Lords should not attempt to annotate a Bill of such importance.
The obvious solution to the problem was to annotate all sentences containing those words.
Another way to reveal the error of postmodernism is to annotate its four key beliefs, and then compare its claims with the facts.
"Jane Eyre" is a classic of Victorian literature that has been extremely well received and often assigned in high schools, especially in English classes.
Examiners may also include questions or passages that they would like you to annotate; i.e. provide a short commentary on.
The Council of Trent was a church council that wrote and annotated on a list of doctrines to be used as guidelines for the rest of the Roman Catholic Church.
The Encyclopédie was intended to reflect the back-to-basics impulse of Enlightenment thought, and contribute to the ongoing project to rationalize human knowledge (the Britannica had been conceived in a similar spirit, a decade before).
However, these benefits should not be considered decisive advantages, since the higher price of annotated journals means that only well-funded institutions and individuals can afford them.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "whereas".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "evidence".
The seventeenth-century English Civil War resulted directly from conflicting views of the proper role of the monarchy and of Parliament in English society.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modification'.
Semantics is the study of the meaning of words.
Noam Chomsky, a well-known liberal American linguist, has held professorships at both the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Arizona.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aside'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'thesis'.
Anatole's ability to annotate is severely limited.
But when this movie came out, very few people had any idea about the horrors that occurred during the Holocaust.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'tendentious'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'estimate'.
One of the Nazis' first actions was to burn down the German parliament, the Reichstag.
Before DNA was discovered, the "out-of-Africa" theory had few arguments to back it up, so this discovery strengthened its position: only a single female ancestor of all humans can't account for all diversity by ongoing random mutation.
The return of Dred Scott to slavery spurred the growth of the abolitionist movement, which increasingly began to argue that African American had not only the right to freedom in the north, but also the right to vote, to own property and to gain
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "immensely".
The Power of the Pen (Annotate)
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "conclusion".
The passage you have just read was taken from a book written by the American historian Chang Liu in 2040.
The more you annotate, the more your knowledge will deepen beyond the shallowest of skimming depths.
The whole work is divided into twenty-six books and an additional introduction, each of these books is itself divided into many chapters, and these chapters into numerous sections, subsections, and even shorter paragraphs which are sometimes divided still further.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "convergence".
All of these jokes are about Professor Rakesh's little-known encounter with a mountain lion, on which he wrote an article entitled "Marginal Problem: Mountain Lion Encounters in the American Southwest".
The last remnants of the forests were cleared to make way for a growing population, but in the process man evolved and developed the technology to create new means of survival.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'commemorate'.
Pierre-Simon Laplace, a prominent French mathematician and astronomer, wrote a book about the work of Isaac Newton in which he attempted to reconcile Newton's work with his own discoveries in Mechanics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hypothesis'.
The main purpose of the first section is to introduce Patrick the person, and his attitude towards life. At 46 verses, it is quite long: he seems to enjoy rhetorical wordiness!
The strikes of 1842 were a direct challenge to the legal authority of the Crown and Parliament, and as such had to be strongly repressed.
The moral of the story has been elaborated into a proverb: "No good deed goes unpunished."
In his book "The Forest People", Dutch physician and writer Nicolas Chevalier describes the lives of several pygmies living in an unspoilt primitive society.
There is no need to annotate Jackson's poem, as it contains no archaic language.
The rise of Protestantism in 15th-century Europe led to widespread public discussion and criticism of the Catholic Church's actions, which it could no longer punish people for publicly denouncing, by printing books and writing pamphlets known as "indications"
It was used to express the origins of the French language in words and phrases of the different origins of Latin that was spoken by inhabitants of city of ancient France or as we know it today, France.
Baron d'Holbach in his 1846 book "Good Sense" discusses the cliche that "we are all born with a clean slate" and how it has been used throughout history to justify inequalities between different groups of people.
She has annotated a number of diaries from the Civil War, and published an essay about their relationship to the development of American literature.
The First Vespucci expedition of 1502 to 1504 was the first of four expeditions to map the coast of the Americas.
Cowell and Mayer were criticized for publishing their conclusions without a series of controls to back up their results; other scientists have attempted to replicate their experiments, but without success.
The difficulty with this definition is that, unlike for instance criminal negligence, the law does not clearly specify what would qualify as gross or willful misconduct.
The main advantage of computer networks is speed; it takes a one-tenth of a second for electronic signals to travel the average network, while it takes light five-hundredths of a second to travel 3 feet, which means that you
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
David Irving, author of Hess's biography, wrote that Hess's flight was the mistaken belief that he could possibly reach Scotland and initiate talks with Churchill about an armistice or even peace.
The background to the situation is the new evidence which has come to light through the writing of a soldier at that time called Sir Henry Ellis.
The process of publishing the Dead Sea Scrolls in the last fifty years has been extremely slow. The editors and translators have chosen to publish only those documents that are of most interest and importance.
It has been annotated and translated for modern readers.
The other guest was an ex-Senator, and he mostly commented on how to change the annotations of the articles without having to change the facts.
It was not until the 19th century that machines were invented that could annotate music for a large orchestra.
Journalists were forced to annotate every statement as either True or False
The second section, "Annotate the Timeline" again reviews some of the same material from the first, but in a slightly different way.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "complex".
This is U.S.A's reaction to the Iraq crisis:
"The government funded the building of a sports stadium without providing additional funding for the building of a hospital to annotate the effects of extending healthcare inequality."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'optimal'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "bias".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "comprise".
The new plan will have to be drawn up, debated, annotated and approved by all twenty seven official government departments.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "Reinforces".
Your professor, this time a female of about 50, wearing a gray tweed suit and reading your text in front of you, decides to use her red pen to mock you.
The Olmecs are not as well known as the Aztecs or Incas, but their artworks are vital links in the chain of humanity's evolution from primitivity to civilization.
Many books at that time were not published by the authors themselves but by printers who would hire someone else to add notes and annotations.
Now, you want to annotate the texts you read with your questions and comments, but where do you find the right words?
The judge's decision is not difficult to make, since the contract you agreed to was very simple and only had one sentence. Even then, it isn't a particularly difficult sentence to understand.
The university's dean of arts wishes to annotate your thesis before you submit it.
So it has to do with the language? Anyway, it starts being used more in the 16th century so it's probably in the top 10%.
In "The Origin of the Family", Engels examines the cause of the first division of labor in prehistoric times, which he considers to be the initial step toward a class-based society.
The writing of the ancient Greeks is so dense and contains so many allusions that it requires a specialist to give it the kind of annotation it needs.
The history of the labor movement in America can best be understood by examining its struggles against capitalism.
The information in the passage suggests that which of the following was a reason for the growth of cities in Europe?
Other than the experiments with the plants, the only thing you do during class is annotate your copy of the text.
The theory of evolution was first proposed by the English naturalist Charles Darwin in his 1859 book "On the Origin of Species", in which he proposes a mechanism for evolution through natural selection.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'participated'.
The ideals and successes of the Enlightenment did not occur in a historical and political vacuum; they occurred in the context of the historical events of the time.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), is a declaration agreed upon by the United Nations General Assembly. It was created to ensure that basic human rights were given to all people regardless of circumstance.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'vanguard'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'complementary'.
His work, in fact, actually served to annotate and corroborate the information that had been discovered earlier by other scientists.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'speculate'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "esoteric".
The two major methods for classifying animals, or any object in reality, are the Linnaean system of taxonomy and the method of annotation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "bill".
The constitution is one of the most annotated documents in legal and political science.
The most important medieval scholar of political thought is St. Thomas Aquinas (1224/5-1274), who wrote the "Commentaries on the Divina Commedia"
The book that Bob just handed in is an unannotated copy of "Jane Eyre".
The school was from a very poor neighborhood and I was the only one who had ever attended college, so my colleagues used my students' essays to learn how to write.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'cause'.
If some scholar or editor has made a comment on the text or annotated it in any way, the symbol "†" is inserted.
This is why so much traditional folklore was passed down in the form of annotated accounts of what people believed to be true.
Annotating the verses of Shakespeare to decide which are the true ones and which are false is thus a very complex ta
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'invasion'.
After a preliminary widespread through Asia, Attila and his horde launched an invasion across the River Rhine into Roman Gaul.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'rationally'.
The conclusions by these authors were not acceptable to Knox who decided to annotate the text.


#anomaly

You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "illogical".
As a result average life expectancy in the developed regions dropped by a year.
The recently discovered fossils of a small monkey-like creature found in Kenya, "Aegyptopithecus zeuxis" or "Zee"
However, it was also discovered that while negative features were consistently removed from the population, sometimes positive or beneficial ones are as well.
A typical glacier is a huge block of ice that forms from snowfall accumulating in local areas.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'evidence'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "Recognition".
The presence of the same bacteria in humans and pigs can be explained by the fact that there is a large degree of overlap in what animals can carry a particular type of bacteria.
An orbital telescope at the time was designed to scan a specific part of space and look for anomalies as opposed to taking wide-range scans.
"The ideas explained in the essays collected in the volume "Soviet Literature" are an anomaly when compared to the ideology on which the USSR was founded."
The study of the formation of fossil shells helped scientists to develop both a coherent theory of geology and also to point out anomalies to the theory.
However, the difference between the two is that in science an anomaly can be explained by a later discovery.
We've detected a strong absorption line from the air at a wavelength of 18 centimeters, but no corresponding line at that position in our water-vapor spectrum. That's an infrared anomaly.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ranging'.
The failure of the Earth's atmosphere to show a marked warming despite the emission of a huge quantity of carbon dioxide was called an "anomaly" by meteorologists.
After 18 years of searching, the only thing that has been found is a lot of evidence for life on other planets and some anomalies in the fossil record that might be due to alien intervention.
The conversion of oxygen from water into soluble oxgen molecules and the conversion of carbon-dioxide from water and into soluble molecules are two bizarre chemical anomalies that take place in Lake Monoun and Lake Nyos in the Western Area of Cameroon.
The actual layout of the channels is an anomaly that defies explanation.
A fifth-century Old Latin version of the Bible is the source of the first a
Another major source of knowledge for historians are reports of anomalies, that is data that doesn't fit into our current theories.
The first indication that the landings were not of intelligent origin was theodolite malfunction reports collected during the first few hours of the landings.
"The rule/law is perfectly valid and legal, yet it is not applicable to the current situation, since it conflicts with the higher authorities order."
"The Etruscan language," she says, "is not an anomaly—it is a key."
It is a fact that the traditional view of natural selection and descent with modification as the cause of speciation is an overstatement: it does not explain the full variability found in nature.
The biggest problem is that the anomaly is invisible.
But some of the codices contain anomalies. Some pages are written in an unknown language or languages, or consist of bizarre and incomprehensible diagrams.
The cold wet season is usually associated with plagues, epidemics, and famines, all of which are dangerous phenomena which constitute birth complications in a society where the medical knowledge and technology are limited.
The game gets harder, you are asked for words such as "supplant", "predominantly", and "relegation".
Professor Ochs begins a new slide, this one displaying more stages of human development.
A Government Official (GOP) has been arrested, after being accused by the FBI of corruption and misuse of funds.


#antecedent

The antecedents of all the mystery religions seem to lie in Syria and Mesopotamia in the late Stone Age.
The antecedent of the word "nuclear" is the same as that of the word "nucleus" since both are about the nucleus.
Nouns are popularly defined as words for people, animals, things and concepts.
The general antecedents of the movement were similar to those of the European Middle Ages.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "vanguard".
The legal concept of "antecedent" interest is that a person who has money owing to him or her may have the right to be paid before somebody to whom nothing is owed.
The antecedents of modern France include the ancient and medieval monarchies that ruled the area.
The antecedents of the modern novel can be traced back to Latin and Italian Renaissance literature from the end of the 1400s and beginning of the 1500s.
The antecedent of the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) was established in 1962.
Most versions of code-switching thus far studied are more frequent with antecedents of high social status.
In English, the antecedent of an object usually comes before its verb, but after its modifier.
But in fact, reading through the whole paragraph, the antecedent of "it" is not entirely clear.
The rule of succession known as male preference primogeniture (commonly called ‘male heir preferential treatment') – where a man inherits a title, for example, before his older sister(s), even if she is older and has a
When you originally defined your name for us, you didn't include your surname.
In the beginning, all people were created equal; it was only after the antecedent of Africa had enslaved those of Asia that such distinctions arose.
After putting an end to this radicalism, the government decided to comply with some of the workers' demands; this action by Prime Minister Gladstone probably prevented more extensive radicalisation of the working classes and thus contributed strongly to the longevity of the
The antecedent of the Irish Constitution is James Madison's 1787 document upon which the U.S. Constitution was based.
The Second World War is usually seen as the point where the antecedents of the Cold War began to emerge, chiefly the expansion of NATO towards the borders of the Soviet Union.
The first antecedent of the modern historical novel is generally considered to be "Don Quixote" (1605) by Cervantes.
They could not be absolutely sure what was antecedent and what was consequent in their quick survey.
However, it is clear that Muslims can and must play a positive antecedent in the struggle for human rights for women in the contemporary world.
It is the antecedent of what would later become the British Museum in London.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'affluent'.
The affluent society of 1950s America was a fabric provided by manufacturing jobs in the cities and suburbs.
The antecedents of the popular rebellion that ousted President Mubarak can be seen in the bread riots in Egypt at the turn of the twenty-first century.
The antecedent of the War on Terror can be found in the Cold War, where the United States and its allies fought the Soviet Union and its allies.
During a real emergency the soldiers would need their captain to decide quickly and give orders, not to spin out in endless indecision.
In politics, religion can play a key role in reinforcing the antecedent governmental authority.
They needed to raise money for their antecedent organization, the Students Christian movement.
Victorian women were typically married by their early teens and enjoyed a close relationship with their mothers-in-law that was not necessarily reciprocated.
Jane Austen's novels are written with the social structure of the late 18th century specifically in mind, and her characters' antecedents can all be found in the ranks of the peerage.
The governments of both sides had a stiff upper lip attitude about the declaration of war and tried to carry on as if the war hadn't already occurred.
The Jacobites wanted to bring back the catholic antecedent and limit the power of the king.
The antecedents of this theory can be found centuries earlier with the work of the ancient Greek philosopher Plato.
As a result of the development of a strong parliament, the antecedent of the House of Commons in England, during and after the Middle Ages, monarchs gradually lost their absolute power.
Nowadays, the antecedents of the British Empire can be seen all over the world: in the thousands of former British colonies, which have more citizens than the USA, or even in places where the sun never set, like Kenya or Argentina
The antecedent of the Magna Carta was a ninth-century document called the Law of the Forrest, granted by an Anglo-Saxon king to a small number of his nobles.
Nevertheless, the nobility's insistence on primogeniture, which is the concept that a family's most valuable possessions, land in this case, would stay within the family if only one child was to be born rather than be split between several children,
The antecedent of the periodic table of elements was the discovery of some basic similarities in the chemistry of the metals and non-metals.
They showed little interest in the external world, and what other antecedents their paintings had, apart from the obsession with depicting desolate landscapes.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'committed'.
While it's true that generals have usually been men of great antecedents, you argue that there is more to leadership than that.
The groups of protesters never reached the stadium because of the antecedent rioting in the city centre.
In 1944, the antecedent of the United Nations, the Bretton Woods Agreement, was signed.
Bertrand was the antecedent of the "socialist French state" and Jules was the antecedent of the "capitalist liberal republic."
But in fact the antecedents of this style of painting could be found in the Italian Renaissance.
The antecedents of the Cold War can be found in the aftermath of the First World War.
Although Phillippe may have been a man of many talents, Louis XVI had doubts about his antecedents and wanted him to undergo a more thorough investigation into his past.
The antecedents of human rights laws can be found in the Magna Carta, the English Bill of Rights, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and other documents.
The Anglo-Saxon antecedent of the English Parliament included a witan, or council of advisors, as well as a gemot, or meeting of wise men.
His antecedents were trash; that was why he was such a bum.
Newspaper editors demanded that children should be kept away from the corrupting influence of literature and cartoons, claiming that they were undermined by it, and that if the trend continued it would have terrible antecedents.
The writings of the ancient Roman historian Tactitus contain a lot of information on the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest, in which the Romans were defeated by Arminius and his Germanic tribe, the Cherusci.
An antecedent of the Etruscans, the ancient Romans had little knowledge about them.
The antecedent of the modern state was the city-state, which had a government and independent legal system.
The news was met with fear and consternation by the general public, whose antecedents had been prey for millennia.
In its antecedent state, however, a true republic has never existed.
The antecedent of the modern computer was Babbage's analytical engine, an incomplete machine that used punched cards to carry out calculations and contained all the basics of later computers.
The conflict—which he called the "Second Hundred Years War" (the "First Hundred Years War" being the conflict between Britain and Spain from 1485 to 1585)—would antecedent twentieth-century struggles.
The antecedent of the present monarch's title was the first Earl of Mornington, who was created as a title in the Peerage of Ireland in 1759.
Also in the mid-1940s, Rorschach returned to his idea of a test with no "right" or "wrong" answers.
This is the first test of this kind that has been used at your school and, as such, will no doubt be given again in the future.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'motive'.
It's antecedent can be found in the Second World War and the events leading up to it.
Most historians believe that the antecedents of democracy in Britain are found in the actions of such people as John Hampden, John Pym, Oliver Cromwell and others.
The antecedent of the modern state is the Babylonian Empire, which encompassed a large region of the ancient Middle East in about 1800 B.C.E.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Siege of Derry'.
The antecedent of the Sunday School is the Sabbath Day school inaugurated in 17th-century colonial America.
In English, it is quite unusual for the antecedent noun to be absent, and especially for the verb to contain more than everything else in a clause.
The king's belief in the existence of witches and devils as well as his consequent fearful anticipation of the devil's possible Antecedents' for humanity, served to amplify particular instances of supposed witchcraft into alleged covens.
The prime minister didn't anticipate the public's strong negative reaction to his plans, which had an antecedent in the prime minister's earlier harsh decisions.
It should also be pointed out that precedents for enacting and applying international law can be found as early as the seventeenth century.
The word antecedent comes from a combination of the Latin words "ante" and "cedere" which literally mean respectively before and to go.
The weak Soviet agriculture sector was a significant hindrance to the economy of the Soviet Union under Mikhail Gorbachev, who came to power in 1985.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "urban".
Banking as we know it today is antecedent to the modern credit card, in which a customer deposits money in a bank or other institution, and the institution gives the customer, perhaps a small plastic card that can be used to make payments
The antecedent of the U.S. Constitution is the Magna Carta of England.
For William Ewart Gladstone, the Prime Minister of Britain, his work in politics was his religion and his antecedent lived on.
The antecedent of human conscience is the collective conscience, which is in turn the operating system of humanity's social species.
Under the doctrine of precedent, or stare decisis, courts are bound by the decisions of prior courts.
A computer program called a parser, which checks the antecedent of a pronoun or adjective to see if it has changed and if it needs another adjective or pronoun to complete its meaning.
David Hume, an 18th-century Scottish philosopher, said that there are in fact two parts of our mind: the ‘antecedent', which collects the sense impressions and puts them in order; and the ‘con
The antecedent of the modern world economy was trade in the Mediterranean area millennia ago.
Eugene's antecedents were humble; the family was never wealthy or politically powerful, and he grew up on his father's small farm.
Yet, despite their antecedent differences, the leaders of the European Union appear to be following similar policies.
However, there has always been a large fall-off in the number of young people choosing to enter this field, and this fall-off is becoming increasingly acute.
The group that was to become the Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei, also known as the Nazi Party, had its roots in anti-Semitic events that took place primarily in imperial Germany between 1919 and 1920.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'parliamentary'.
The antecedents of the National Socialist German Workers' Party can be found in the development of the Second Reich.
The decision to invade Iraq had been made before the weapons inspection teams returned their preliminary findings, which only served to confirm an invasion would be legal, not to prevent it.
Many - including the historian Toynbee and the political scientist Samuel Huntington - have argued that an essential characteristic of a civilization is that it has to be based on a single, unified culture, which they argue can only be premised on one language
Serial killers could be divided into two categories – organized and disorganized.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ambition'.
'S is used in a similar way to 'have' and 'be' as a so-called dummy or empty element; that is, it can be omitted without changing the meaning of the sentence.
The delegates found that their respective governments did not want to go to war and so worked hard to negotiate a peace agreement, but the diplomats were not always successful in this endeavor.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "religion".
The first antecedent of the modern computer in the 20th century can be found in the Jacquard loom, an intricate piece of technology that was used for weaving scarves.
I had met Walsingham several years before, when he was a guest at the English College, the Jesuit school near Rheims.
You: Apparently it's used when one noun is another noun's predecessor, ante being a Latin prefix meaning before in time.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'authoritarian'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'conversely'.


#antithesis

In German Romanticism, there is a "poetic antithesis" between the ugly reality of life and the ideal world of dreams.
The rise of the Church of England and its support by the state was the antithesis to the radical tide of Puritanism.
The Native American Antithesis to the Conquistadores
Our innate tendency towards both prosociality and antisociality could be seen as the human "antithesis"; we strive for altruism, but are easily corrupted into behaving in a selfish fashion.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "deprived".
In "The Empire of the Steppes,"
Most people in the late eighteenth century believed they were living in a period of Enlightenment. Any social contract, such as it was, between aristocracy and peasants, was considered to be antiquated and of the 'Dark Ages'.
There is a natural tendency for people to return to nature; this is what the antithesis entails and it seems that only those that forget the natural world as it is dominated by the pursuit of power can temporarily escape this fate.
The Romans achieved success by conquering other countries and establishing governmental control over them. The European superstate will achieve its success by allowing other nations to maintain their freedom.
The concept of the "new man" was the antithesis of conservative thought.
The system of Common Law that still exists in England and in most of the former colonies is the direct antithesis of an absolute monarchy.
Jennifer has always been the quiet and shy type, her antithesis being her very extroverted friend Tina.
The major features of the English Civil War include: one king, many nobles and a parliament with power to declare war, raise taxes and make laws.
I couldn't agree more, Mr. Grey. In fact, I think mandatory public service should be introduced in high schools!
The famous debate between Hammurabi and Ammisaddu is considered by historians to be the antithesis of the later debate between Hammurabi and Abraham.
Antithesis refers to a situation where two forces exist and interact in a balanced manner.
The speech was a clear antithesis to the Nuremberg Rallies staged by Hitler.
The matter of how individual rights were balanced against the need for security was a subtle and complex issue with no set policy; each case had to be decided on its own merits (or lack thereof).
You can't think of a sentence containing the word antithesis.
The antithesis of the electronic media is the personal media such as printed materials and manuscripts.
The Battle of Tours is of great historical importance because it marked the halt of the Muslim advance into Europe; before then, Europeans were terrified the Muslims would overrun all of Christendom.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "expansion".
The antithesis of life is death, the antithesis of order is chaos and the antithesis of the cat is a goldfish.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "abridged".
The period of "Prussian history" from 1815 to 1848 was one of the most liberal periods in European history, as the antithesis to the French Revolution.
The ideas of the ancient Greeks are often considered the antithesis of Christianity, which was an early sign of conflict between Hellenism and the new religion.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "pending".
In the medieval period, the Catholic Church was a powerful political force – the antithesis of freedom.
The church's authoritarian insistence on social conformity in the name of its antithesis, free thought, was stifling to intellectual and religious freedoms.
The belief that only the upper class should be allowed to vote was the antithesis of democracy.
David Hilbert's idea of a formalist theory of mathematics, is the antithesis of Kronecker's belief that mathematics is primarily about invariance.
The most important consequence of the English Civil War was the abolition of the monarchy in England. The triumph of the parliamentary side also meant the establishment of a new political entity in England: the republic.
He laid the foundation for the modern study of embryology, but his extreme opposition to any theory that was not based on direct observation led to a reactionary theory of biology, in contrast to the rapid scientific advances being made at that time in other fields
The government's minimal protection of the individual and its antithetical attitude towards the market make it difficult to impossible to achieve any success in the private sector.
The rise of modern science was the antithesis of religion and it is from this period that the two worldviews have been in conflict.
The antithesis of good is not evil but indifference.
The cold and the dark of winter were the antithesis of the warm sun light and clear blue skies of summer.
The "Beefeaters" also provided security at the Tower and acted as guides for visitors, hardly a job for dangerous men; they more nearly were counterweights to the police force, antitheses to them in some ways.
The Poor Law was passed in order to provide relief for those unable to find work, by setting up workhouses where the poor could perform tasks such as spinning wool.
Since the ages of antiquity, human beings have attempted to explain the reason for their unhappiness and misfortunes by creating various theories about life.
The democratic societies of classical Greece and the Roman republic were the antithesis of the totalitarian states that would follow in the next two thousand years.
The story is a kind of fictional "shadow history" in which the ostensible antithesis to C.S.A.
The second way in which the Nazis opposed modern art was through exhibitions.
The evolution of the human brain is a story with three chapters. The first, starting from the brains of our lizard ancestors and ending with Homo Erectus, took around one and a half million years.
The Battle of Britain was the fight in the skies between the Royal Air Force and the Luftwaffe during World War II, from 10 July to 31 October 1940.
The natives needed guns and ammunition, plus food and other supplies.
The theory of evolution by natural selection was the antithesis of creationism.
The clash of these two ideals were the basic premise for the French Revolution, a time of both destruction and creation in France from 1789 - 1799.
Antithesis is a term typically used to refer to two different forces that are similar yet opposite, and which complement each other in some way.
The revolutions of 1848, which were a series of uprisings against authoritarian regimes throughout Europe, represent the antithesis of the authoritarian system.
When the war was over, discipline broke down completely with the antithesis of the stand-up British soldier emerging.
In the middle of the 19th century, impressionism and realism were competing schools of thought.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
The definition of wilderness has become something of an antithesis of civilization.
The Founding Fathers' vision of a strong central government was the antithesis to the extreme individualism that English settlers had brought to America.
The antithesis of the concept that land is God's gift to all is the principle that individuals have an unalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
The two greatest influences on the transition from medieval to modern Europe were the Renaissance and the Reformation.
Some argue that Stalin's rule represented the antithesis of everything Karl Marx had envisioned.
The antithesis of this is when someone struggles in a meaningless job, as they feel that there is no goal to work towards.
The only institution that could have put up an effective resistance to the totalitarian regimes was the Catholic Church, but by and large it did not, at least not until it was too late; in some instances it even assisted the Nazis.
This inevitable change is the antithesis of what the Nazis wanted to maintain in their fictional state of perfection.
The Church Fathers opposed many of the scientific ideas of their day as dangerous or heretical and in particular they rejected the theory of human evolution from animals known as the ‘antithesis' of human beings.
Ironically, the people who were supposed to be a beacon of civilization were engaging in slavery and eradicating the native population.
Antithesis is a literary term that refers to the direct contrast of ideas in parallel clauses, and while it can refer to the direct opposite, it doesn't have to.
Former members of the communist party in America typically don't agree with the antithesis of their former party.
the Nazis glorified them as superior, perfect humans, while the Jews represented their antithesis: inferior, degenerate, and a threat to the purity of their race (Kershaw 42)
Antithesis is the term given to the technique in which contrasting ideas are placed side by side to create a detailed argument.
The first record of Japan's writing system is believed to be in an ancient picture-book called "Jōmon jiten" ("Jōmon dictionary").
They needed to call up the usual vital reserves from the "antithesis of war", namely from the economic sphere.
The French state at this time was a powerful centralised government run by an absolute monarchy, a bureaucratic system and an established church all of which controlled the lives of its citizens.
The theories of the French social philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau influenced the German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, whose ideas dominated intellectual thinking in Europe at the beginning of the 19th century and grew into a well-known antithesis of the idea
The writer is known for creating a fictional city called 'Cortopia' where various social and moral issues are discussed in the context of an elemental, imaginable society.
The antithesis of the idea that the ruler was chosen by God was the concept of the social contract, which was first proposed by English philosopher and lawyer Thomas Hobbes in his book "The Leviathan".
The rise of the Romantic movement in literature and music was the antithesis of the Industrial Revolution's emphasis on logic and science.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "profound".
In this sense Christianity was a profound movement and not just another external religion grafted onto existing culture.
The term "birth control" is a direct contrast to the idea of having as many children as possible, which was the standard until the introduction of "birth control".
The rise of the popular press was the antithesis of the elitism of the mainst
The antithesis of this outlook was developed by the painter Paul Gauguin who lived in Tahiti and believed that children should be allowed to grow up free from Christian dogma.
The antithesis of individuality is conformity.
The antinomy between the ideal of brotherhood and the reality of ongoing violence found its expression in pietistic Christianity, a movement that emphasized Innerworldly religion.
Antithesis comes from the Greek language and literally means a placing opposite.
The religious conflicts of the Reformation period and the years following it (including the English Civil War) are seen as the antithesis to the political unification that had been accomplished by the Roman Empire.
Mr. Franklins was a man of contrasts: he was both an intellectual and an extremely pragmatic man when it came to his businesses
A debate often centers around whether women's socially approved role of motherhood should be considered productive work and if so, whether it should count against the official female unemployment figures.
In the world of art, the Italian Renaissance was a high point from which the next century would see a steady decline and the antithesis of humanistic ideals.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'adversary'.
The classicist A.V.
During the same period, Ibsen wrote a series of plays critical of the establishment. His best-known dramas, "The Wild Duck", "An Enemy of the People" and "Ghosts"
The second new medicine that was presented at the conference showed promise in combating malaria by treating its symptoms without having any effect on the human body itself.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'forward'.
The exaltation of form follows a fairly strict formal pattern, varying mainly in the particular type of antithesis used.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apocalypse'.
The emperor and his forces were almost all killed by the antithesis of all he believed in.
And the antithesis of this era was the horribly unstable period before Socrates.
The obvious antithesis to this new freedom and tolerance in the arts was political tyranny.
The Wealth of Nations was a direct intellectual opponent to the ideas in Jean-Jacques Rousseau's The Social Contract, or at least Rousseau's "Civil religion,"
The common view that modernity subverts tradition is the antithesis of reality.
The policy of appeasement set in motion by Lord John Simon's resignation created the antithesis of the treaty mentality.
The theory of natural selection, put forward by Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace in the mid-19th century, is the antithesis of creationism.


#articulate

While one can certainly learn a lot by reading books or academic articles, the best way to learn is by interacting with professors and fellow students.
Otto was never an articulate writer, but the changes he made in this letter make his meaning clearer.
In his heyday in the late 1980s and early ‘90s, (U.S. politician)Edgar was a garrulous loudmouth who was impossible to ignore, and one of the most articulate supporters of conservative values.
Heilbron then states that before the mid-century chemists had little use for physicists, but after WWII nuclear technology and particle physics had made great advances which excited chemists who then adopted these theories and also hoped to garner a share
However, the official position of the Church at that time was to largely ignore his findings and not attempt to "articulate" them within the Church's belief system.
Despite being an articulate speaker, the man's wild gesticulations meant few could understand him.
One thing that is marvelous about human beings is our ability to articulate our thoughts and our feelings in a way that no other creatures can.
The students, however articulate or articulate they may be, are all curiously disinterested in the prospect of challenging and changing the ideas of their elders.
Elam began working with Kennewick Man partly because few American physical anthropologists were willing and able to, given the extent of the osteological work required.
The reason why the ideas of Martin Luther were so powerful and revolutionary at the time was that he was one of the first intellectuals to articulate them.
He called on the workers to do so but few were able to articulate a clear vision of what they wanted.
The important men of the city were called to a meeting to articulate their demands for a new constitution.
For a long time, the lower classes were unable to articulate their feelings of dissatisfaction with their lot.
William Wilberforce was not only articulate in speech, but also in writing with a brilliant mind.
The artist has an interesting theory about how religious beliefs have an overlap with mental disorder.
The critics were intelligent and articulate but their arguments were difficult to follow.
"The one thing that I really hate about being a woman is that we aren't encouraged to be as articulate or as confident as men," she says.
The artist David Hammons is trying to give a voice to the voiceless, and make articulate speakers out of those who are paralyzed from the neck down.
They didn't embrace new ideas, they were unable to think logically and, in many cases, couldn't articulate their thoughts.
The question would need to be broken down into more manageable sub-questions and each would need to be researched separately; the answers would then need to be linked together in some way to form a conclusion that is both succinct and accurate.
"Speech without words, articulated through the breath, is like a bow that shoots its arrows at the hearts of all who hear it," said Krishna.
While the authoritarian personality would tend to lack the articulation of such a concept.
They also couldn't articulate their reasons, because they were too young or simply didn't know any better.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apartheid'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'realistically'.
But as he watched her drive away, her words kept coming back to him and he soon found himself trying to articulate an argument that would not only convince her but also make him believe it.
Professor: Noam Chomsky is an articulate and intelligent man, but he tends to oversimplify the ideas he argues.
Lipman is articulate and polished, but he's not an outstanding speaker.
The Government has failed to articulate any clear vision for the nation's future.
A comparison between the treatment of African-Americans in the United States and Jews in Nazi Germany would not be a fair one, since Germans are a highly articulate people.
Nelson, was not particularly articulate about what he wanted to communicate.
What mankind was facing was no short-term significance.
In the eighteenth century, many of the mentally ill were artfully displayed in what were known as "human zoos".
He is considered to be one of the most articulate philosophers in the world.
The purpose of the development of new communication technologies was to articulate government policies, which would resonate better with the citizens.
It was only after he became Prime Minister that Gladstone really began to articulate the issues that troubled him.
Yet even before last December's fall of the Berlin Wall, Mr.
Another sentence, the beginning of which was lost in transmission.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'supervise'.
We have long admired the architects of apartheid, like D. F. Malan, as men with the vision to articulate a way of life that protected our people from harm and gave us a future.
"The civil rights movement concluded with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and The Voting Rights Act of 1965, which ended segregation and provided for equal protection under the law for all citizens."
He spoke in an articulate and affectionate way about his childhood.
Adam Smith, who articulated the concept of the "invisible hand," did not coin the term; it was used earlier by Thomas Jefferson in an 1813 letter.
However, they lacked the resources to make more than a small number of prototypes that were nowhere nearly as articulate or lifelike as Baxter's design.
Mussolini's rise to power was enabled by his ability to articulate a compelling vision of the future that people were willing to fight for.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing a preposition.
Novelist and poet Louis MacNeice possessed a sharp mind and a quiet, reserved nature that made his friends and family think of him as someone who was hard to "get to know" but worth the effort.
The question as to whether other intelligent creatures exist in the universe is one that has occupied humans for millennia and continues to do so despite the lack of any scientifically validated evidence to date.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "modern".
Professor: In 1710, a middle-aged man who claimed to have spent his youth in England came to the German town of Kassel to obtain money from a local nobleman.
He was an articulate speaker and the audience responded to his vision of a new, unified Africa.
The protest march was organized by the trade union leadership, who were more articulate and sophisticated than the people they led.
He became increasingly articulate and soon wrote widely on climatic changes.
The Nature of the Church is, all things considered, a fairly articulate book.
The government can't just come up with an articulate explanation of why the new tax is both fair and good for the economy.
Most of Churchill's speeches are so articulate that they sound like they had been written before being spoken.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'leviathan'.
King George III had become a very articulate but somewhat boring speaker, and his speeches were usually long and laborious.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "worldview".
In order to articulate a thought or idea, one needs to have some knowledge of it in the first place.
Even the most articulate of the new economists failed to impress the politicians who were faced with putting their theories into practice.
There seems to be an assumption, quite widely accepted, that the human brain is equally able to articulate statements which describe o
The immediate causes of the French Revolution of 1789 are generally regarded as "haves" struggling against "have-nots".
Television, through its ability to articulate such concerns, has been instrumental in creating a national consciousness
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "distinct".
The music of the Beatles, and probably other bands such as the Rolling Stones and the Who, were an articulate expression of the trouble youth feel.
They have ideas and are in many cases willing to articulate them, but they don't know how to persuade others.
The painting captures the essence of the circus and its tenents.
In the footsteps of his predecessor, he has proved to be a highly articulate and intelligent speaker.
Hunt describes how a particular style of male articulate is accepted, often with admiration, in a range of public situations
The later works of the artist did not evidence the same creative genius that was so evident in his earlier works; it is generally believed that alcohol was the cause of his failure to articulate his inner visions with the same genius he had previously done.
Some of the first human rights documents, such as the Magna Carta were an attempt to articulate and formalise the rights traditionally held by the King's subjects.
Marx was an influential philosopher and a powerful writer, and many of his ideas have been articulated at length by people with different perspectives.
He is a man of few words but it is well known he has an articulate way of speechifying.
Friedrich Nietzsche was a 19th-century German philosopher who articulated the importance of the individual.
Noam Chomsky's ideas about language and its development have been too complex for most scientists to articulate.
Noam Chomsky, a linguist and political activist, is today considered the most articulate and influential advocate of anarchism.
The way he taught was not by giving them information, but by asking them questions and then waiting for them to articulate their own answers, a method known as the Socratic method of teaching.
The dean is sometimes compared to a mother-in-law because she is the woman you have to please most since she has the power to ensure that your life is a happy one or a miserable one.
After a long silence, he found his voice and articulated what everyone was thinking but afraid to say.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "on the other hand".
They could not agree upon a constitution, and soon there was nothing to articulate the separate interests of each state.
In some circles of intellectual life, belief in the existence of God has become something of a reflex, or a matter of mere tradition, devoid of any real intellectual articulation.
For citizens of the Hellenistic world, the Roman Empire was an empire located at the far edge of the world.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
The union leader's ability to articulate the concerns of the workers and explain the reasons for their strike to a mass audience on television was invaluable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'gradually'.
Despite the amount of money they raised in their concerts, they never managed to articulate their message through the media as well as other groups did.
It wasn't until a small group of articulate artists and authors began to voice their disenchantment with what they saw as the dehumanizing effects of advanced industrialization that socialism became a topic for serious discussion.
You know that Ben liked to talk about how the Jews were one of the most articulate and powerful interest groups in America.
The philosopher was articulate about his ideas and a number of people were converted to his religion.
It was really only after he grew older that he became more articulate.
Traditionally historians have believed that the leaders articulate the views of society as a whole.
The peasants under leadership of Oliver Cromwell overthrew the English monarchy and the country's upper class to establish a new government in which they, the merchants and the more educated (the new ‘articulate' middle class), would have
The orator was such a skilled parliamentary performer, that he was able to articulate h
The Minister's speech was articulate and elegant, but the receptionist's comments showed that she was really very ignorant.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'obvious'.
"Obviously, he died from a stab wound to the chest," she answered.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "rather".
In a sense, schoolchildren have become more articulate over the past 50 years.
I agree with this analysis; as a professor, one of the things I value most in my students is their ability to articulate their thoughts.
The term genocide was first used in a legal sense by a Polish


#aspect

A central aspect of scientific socialism is that it is incompatible with discrimination of any sort, particularly on the grounds of gender, race or sexuality.
Greenhouse Gases are a vital aspect in the warming of our planet.
The contribution of each and every single one of the Brandenas to our success must be noted, their bravery and dedication is an example to us all.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aspect'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aspect'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aspect'.
Aspect and tense are components of verbs that convey additional information about the timing associated with the action.
The aspects of the modern military that have changed since the beginning of World War I are weapons, including tanks, airplanes, and airships; communications, including phones, radios, and satellites; and transportation, including cars, trucks, and submarines.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
One of the most important aspects of ancient writing is that it provides us with a lot more information than modern writing.
It's a human weakness that every aspect of our lives is not perfect.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "instrumental".
For the privileged, writing became an instrument of power.
The main aspect of Native American religion that made the Spanish missionaries' work much easier than in other parts of the Americas was the fact that most tribes had a singular Creator God.
The Italian ‘trecento' paintings primarily involved religion.
The most important scientific aspect of the war was the change in water supply.
In the discussion after the talk he mentioned what an important aspect this was to him.
The advantages of being part of the Roman Empire are many, but one major aspect was that it helped facilitate trade.
The advantages of being part of the Roman Empire are many, but one major aspect was that it helped facilitate trade.
You ask the professor for a sente
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'early'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hallmark'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'realize'.
There are several aspects of speech that distinguish different accents.
The main aspect of the speech everyone seems to be agreeing about is that it was a stinging confirmation of all the negative stereotypes that the public has about Hollywood - superficial, self-absorbed and focused on money...
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aspect'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aspect'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "consequently".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "technology".
Guess I was wrong about the test, you think.
You ask the professor for a sentence containin
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "represent".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reform".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "benevolent".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "gravestones".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "reforms".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "clash".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "intensity".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "modern".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "became".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "western".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "monument".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "deserving".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "initiated".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "deterioration".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "added".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "importance".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "contentment".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "furthermore".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "horrible".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "protect".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "scarcity".
And for your last question, you can either ask the professor for a sentence that contains the word "unity", "division" or "liberty".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "resemble".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "immediately".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "divided".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "extraordinary".
You ask the professor for a sentence that can start with "Although there was once...."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "magistrate".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "breeze".
You ask the professor for a sentence that contains a question in it.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "politics".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "equivalent".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "independence".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "hundreds". Professor:Several hundreds of refugees had to flee from their homes.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "condone".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "endanger".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "prosecution".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "atmosphere".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "satisfactory".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "correct".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "desires".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "violent".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "diligence".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "materialistic".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "acceptance".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "solace".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "distance".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "regrettably".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "vampire".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "holes".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "essay".
Now, you are hungry and it's time to eat the rest of the pizza!
Professor: The surface of the sea is very calm.
You decide you will interpret the question in this way.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "pursue".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "famous".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "co-operate".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "indifference".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "initiative".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "resemble".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "furthermore".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "concession".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "steadfast".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "patriotic".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "moral".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "monarch".
You tell the professor that you are ready for the multiple-choice questions. He tells you that you can make as many attempts at it as you want but that you can only submit your answers once.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "arise".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "preparation".


#assert

However, it was asserted that the women's vote would be enough to ensure the passing of laws aimed at improving the lives of all women.
However, the natural resources of Europe and, more importantly, the resources of the people that live there do not allow for this.
The purpose of the EEC was to assert American influence in a post-war Europe that was attempting to assert its own interests independently of US help.
"There's no evidence that land use is damaging the river," asserted the local council representative.
In the experiences of the civil rights movement, one can see a basis for the assertion that groups may legitimately contend for power within our society.
Many parents could not assert the same parental authority they could in the past, such has been the ongoing process of moral degeneration that it isn't even questioned anymore.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'parliament'.
Professor: The English Parliament, which had been suspended for several years while King James I reigned, was called again in 1640.
Many of the paintings in the museum's collections are of historical interest, but they have little artistic value because their artists never really mastered the skill of painting.
It was clear that science would have to assert its independence from religion, and the way this was done in the nineteenth century was to insist that religious questions were outside its domain and that scientific truth was entirely distinct from religious truth.
The historian, therefore, begins with an assertion and then works to verify it; the detective begins with the verification and then works to reinforce it.
That was not an unreasonable assumption to make, given what you knew at the time.
The manifesto mainly deals with the psychological problems of the youth of the era, and what they saw as the causes of these problems, as well as offering solutions to them.
However, history has proven these assertions wrong: the Kingdom of Hawaii was established in 1795 and endured until 1893.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
You ask the professor to continue.
His main concern was that children were being indoctrinated into the ideas of Marxism, which he felt had dangerous implications for the free world.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "presence".
The most effective method of asserting dominance in an organization, according to social psychologists, is to become a member of its dominant subgroup.
Furthermore, fascists asserted that their iron-fisted rule was necessary in order for a nation to succeed.
Professor: The narrow Berlin Wall was finally torn down in 1989, when the communist authorities could neither prevent East Berliners from escaping to the West, nor prevent those on the West from entering East Berlin.
However, the most extreme conclusions of this theory were later disproven, and the implications were adjusted accordingly.
Heather takes a certain satisfaction in asserting her dominance over class.
The United States is the only nation in the world that has not signed the Kyoto protocol; this is largely as a result of the present administration's firm belief in the importance of industrial development.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'naturally'.
The university's administration has an attitude of negativism and anxiety toward technology.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'condemn'.
"The most common criticism that the Church made of the democratic movement was that it condemned the proposed system for its corruption."
The more people glorify terrorism and violence as effective means to a political end, the more that this will become a normal practice in Rwanda's society.
Hitler's actions before and during the Second World War are used by some people to back up their arguments that he wanted to create a superrace of Germans
The politician asserted that the French arm of the charity is an autonomous organization and is not influenced by the "radical" elements of the American parent company.
The Nazis strongly asserted their belief in the superiority of the Aryan race.
The government tried to bolster its case by interviewing everyone within the blast zone, hoping to find witnesses who could assert that the bomber had acted alone.
The National Socialist's most dramatic attack on the Jews, the "Reichskristallnacht" (Night of Broken Glass), occurred in November 1938.
The government has asserted its right to refuse the Freedom of Information request on the grounds that the information pertains to security matters.
While historians might write with a sense of objectivity, the truth is that each historian brings their own set of beliefs, attitudes and biases into their writings. These personal beliefs inevitably influence how they interpret the evidence.
The most prominent dissenters from the party line were slowly silenced through threats and assertions of 'correctness' by the government.
The French also asserted that the war was just and necessary to prevent Catholic Austria from overwhelming the smaller Protestant states.
The American scholar Kenneth Pike emphasized the importance of making an assertion in a field and backing it up with evidence.
The book is more about "what happens if you assert your dominance over others" rather than how to assert it.
The French asserted that this was a gross violation of their rights as an independent country.
The evidence is fairly strong that there were some primitive hunting and gathering societies in the hills of Southern Africa before the Bantu expansion.
"Young people, don't you know there's a war going on out there?" the professor states.
The most elaborate written theory of justice that we've found from the ancient world is that of the Athenian rhetorician Isocrates. He wrote "On the Good" in the 4th century BCE.
He made an important discovery concerning the causes of cancer and the role that chemical substances, called carcinogens, play in it; he also demonstrated how certain drugs can inhibit the growth of cancer.
The Nazis' anti-Semitism was based on the assumption that Jewish people wanted to destroy the so-called Aryan race, hence the infamous 'stab-in-the-back myth', in which Jews were blamed for losing the First World War
The young journalist asserted that politicians are, as a rule, strongly motivated by self-interest.
Professor: We also require students to complete a minor in another field, such as biology, chemistry or physics.
In Iraq, the asserted right to inspect was used as a means of getting Iraqis accustomed to foreign troops on their soil.
A computer model can be used to prove an assertion is correct, but in many cases the model will still have to be simplified so much that it loses its closest resemblance to reality.
"All that is necessary for the forces of evil to triumph is for enough good men to do nothing." --Edmund Burke (1729-1797)
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'assert'.
The book asserts that American government has been dominated by wealthy elites since its foundation, but that the people have still maintained some influence through social movements.
The organization could threaten to sue its critics for libel, or it could threaten to withdraw advertising from those who criticized it, both common tactics used to silence journalists writing critically about large organizations.
The need for workers to leave their families for long periods of time to work elsewhere initiated the Labor Movement.
"We assert that the concept of an authoritative text does not and should not determine the value of a literary work."
The usage that you suggest would imply that the person was violently demanding something arrogantly.
However, when it comes to "1" is no longer counter, the whole line will be counted as a strike, and hence if the next digit is a six, you lose only one life.
Tragically, Joachim had established an ‘Abbey of the Eucharist' in his town to emphasize the importance of the sacrament.
The first manned flight was only fifteen years ago. Since then, the number of manned flights and the length of each flight has increased dramatically. This is an example of what is called exponential growth.
It required a person to make an assertion before he could be sentenced.
Those who assert that the earth moves about the sun, and that all the planets make their revolutions about the sun, esteem this an error in Ptolemy; for they commit the earth to the middle of the heavens, and so the sun
Although the Aztecs, Incas and Mayans were ruled by small groups of people, there is no evidence to suggest that the inhabitants were enslaved or mistreated.
The Nazis asserted that over the centuries, the German people had become weak and effeminate.
The workers of the world had first to unite, secondly they had to take control of the factories and mines from the owners and thirdly they had to establish their own government that would run society for all.
The professor then proceeded to assert that the new evidence meant that most of what she had been taught about the war at college was wrong.
The main weakness of a theory is that it necessarily relies on a certain degree of assertion rather than proven fact.
In his later years, he concentrated on religious painting and struggled to reassert his diminishing creative powers.
However, in the past few years, with rising sea levels due to global warming, some coastal countries have had to reassess their position.
However, the one thing on which everyone seems to agree is that the individual's right to assert control over his or her own body is undoubted.
The general public has a tendency to over-assert itself in fields in which it has little competence.
Some historians have gone so far as to assert that the French revolutionaries were deliberately killing their prisoners simply to prevent them from being recaptured and rescued.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'situation'.
"The Longest Day"
In the 18th century, the middle classes asserted their political power with the cry of no taxation without representation.
The student activists of 1968 were so militantly leftist that it was an open secret that the US Government was bankrolling their activities and actively encouraging them.
The Royal Air Force was busily defending the British isles from the seemingly unstoppable Luftwaffe raids.
The government's position in the film is based upon the 'social contract' as described by Hobbes, where citizens give up some of their freedom to the government in exchange for protection.
The mass-murderer clearly stated his reasons for killing all those people.
At that time, the Fascists were increasing their control over the country, and university professors were required to sign an oath of loyalty to the Fascist party.
Even though the English had asserted their dominance at Crecy and Poitiers, they lost at the Battle of Agincourt.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'assert'.
"Men never do evil so completely and cheerfully as when they do it from religious conviction."
In England Puritanism had lost any all encompassing importance by 1689, yet in America it continued to be a force with an influence until the end of the seventeenth century and even to some degree the beginning of the eighteenth.
No rational person can seriously believe that they are solely responsible for the actions of a group or groups larger than themselves.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'wars'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "monitor".
He was determined to prove the poem's authorship by asserting that Shakespeare was too busy to write any other works at the time.
Einstein asserted that acceleration and gravitation are equivalent phenomena.
Simon: Look at this guy: he's not taking any notice of me. I'm standing here ready to serve and he's just sitting there ignoring me! What an arsehole.
Professor:The postmodernists' ideas about education take for granted that individuals are autonomous and free to create their own meanings.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'premise'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'only'.
Scithe asserted that in modern humans wide cultural diversity exists side by side with a strong tendency toward conformity, which causes people to like ideas that are familiar even when they are inappropriate.
The increasingly totalitarian governments in the region, their increasing willingness to use assassination and terror tactics against dissidents and other oppressive measures led to an increase in dissident activity.
The 1953 compromise weakened the statement of European history under the Nazis.
The Court of St. James, which asserted Canada's jurisdiction over the northwest passage in 1960, has been used
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "evaluate".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "respectfully".
You ask the professor for a sentence ending with "starts".
In the field of literature, Linda Hutcheon writes that parody "suggests a final and inevitable judgement: the invalidation and interchangeability of all values".
However, the fact remains that given its complex internal structures and its advanced linguistic and logical abilities, consciousness is necessary for a creature to have a soul.
The idea that machines could one day become cleverer than humans and so might need to be banned had been widely discussed among academics and in 1994 the American mathematician I. J.
However, the fact that he had become increasingly unproductive in his final years has brought that assumption into question.
In the early decades of the nineteenth century, many radicals were as outraged by conditions in prisons as they were by conditions in factories.


#assume

However, like all writing of that time it was an assumption on his part.
The professor assumes an air of false modesty, but we all know he is one of the greatest geniuses in the field.
We can't assume that all human beings are identical: let's say, instead, that each one of us is unique.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "resort".
In this situation, there is a danger that world leaders will all assume that someone else is dealing with the problem.
"And there was no way to assume where it would end!"
The British government assumed the right to govern Malta in 1814 and Sir Thomas Maitland was sent there to meet the rulers and finalise affairs.
A single assumption made when creating a new theory often turns out to be correct.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reconciliation'.
There are three main assumptions that underly the work of the geneticists.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'welfare'.
When the first Europeans arrived in the New World, the Native Americans assumed that they were spirits who had arrived from the sky.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'subsequent'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'original'.
Clans in the Scottish highlands were forced to assume a more communal way of life than they were used to.
For the first 40 years of its history, few people knew about or understood the significance of DNA. It wasn't until much later that scientists would assume the importance it has today.
1. The first thing you should do is assume their standard safety precautions apply.
Scientists have been forced to assume that many of the missing links are probably hidden under miles of ocean, or buried underneath layers of earth.
The reason why governments assume the right to lie is because they believe that the good of the whole community requires it.
It is very important to realize what the administration is assuming: that students must be passive recipients of knowledge rather than active participants in their own learning process.
For about 2,500 years, people assumed that the world was flat although some early seafarers must have run into evidence to the contrary.
The two major philosophical assumptions of behaviorism are that all human activity is learned and that the environment is where the individual learns.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'only'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'political'.
The philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein famously assumed in his later years that all of life's meaning could be
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "solar".
However, we have to assume that the other inhabitants of the earth have gone through similar types of evolutionary changes.
Admittedly my final conclusions were based on a number of assumptions.
However, assuming that the war was motivated by similar things such as nationalism, will make the story much easier to understand and follow.
No assumptions can be made about the validity of this work until it is peer-reviewed.
While it is true that a few million people died unnecessarily during the Russian and Chinese revolutions, it is important to remember that these were the only chance, however slim, for these nation's to become more democratic in the long term.
In the 1890s, Hall assumed control of the company and it soon became one of the richest in America.
However, it is important to note that the commonly-held assumption that the ideology of a society is directly represented by its government is false.
There were also conflicts among members of the defense teams, as some attorneys felt Freedman was guilty and others assumed Piest was.
Most of the photographs that feature in this museum were presented as gifts to important people, most of whom were assumed to be photographers.
The assumption that evidence of abuse of women was not of interest unless it was linked to witchcraft has been disproved by this find.
Now, the next part of your assignment has to do with one of the most momentous events of the twentieth century.
While it may seem unnecessary to assume such a thing, one must remember that many of the nation's founders were highly educated and idealistic men.
Primarily, it is assumed that pupils learn at the same rate regardless of their parents' education, social class or income.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Fourth'.
"I assume you have read the article I suggested," said Professor Hardcastle.
However, to assume that what the couple were arguing about had been going on for some time, as the police initially did, would be jumping to conclusions.
Almost all medical assumptions about the plague are, of course, incorrect; however, it is true that the most common
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "eliminate".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "novel".
"We can assume that we'll be in good health as long as we look after ourselves."
Achilles assumed that the arrow, having been in his grasp, was a safe gift.
The early church fathers assumed that the Earth was at the center of the universe and that the Sun, the stars and the planets all revolved around it.
I can't find the sentence that has "Given an account of", but given the definition of assume, I'm pretty sure it would work.
The most common assumption before the English resistance collapsed was that a strong Royalist rising in the West Riding would force the King to send troops there, allowing the Northamptonshire men to defeat the London trained bands at their leisure and so free
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'insurrection'.
The primary assumption of the "new discipline" was that you could make a new species by manipulating an organism's DNA at a very early stage in its development.
The idea that electrons assume a specific orbit "around" the atom is not strictly accurate.
The account of the assumption was removed from the festival in the 19th century.
But the important assumption that underlined the whole of the Workers' Paradises was that the population is homogeneous, and that everyone is equally good or bad.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'self-proclaimed'.
The working classes assumed that the aristocracy could afford higher prices while the aristocracy assumed the working classes could
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "cause".
In terms of their size, the biggest animals in the ocean are filter feeders who don't really 'hunt' at all—the basking shark and the whale.
The army was having to assume full control of the economy, something that had been happening to a lesser extent for decades.
Vlad assumed his role as ruler of the land in 1697.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'assemble'.
Only in the last few decades have women been able to assume roles in the army that were other than nursing or administrative.
I want you to assume that your opponent has made an entirely logical argument.
The main assumption of the Council of Europe is that an independent European Court for Human Rights would greater advance the protection of human rights in Europe.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'determined'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "fantasy".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'motive'.
One could assume that it is apparent that the rise of money plays a vital role in the development of our civilization.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'actuality'.
Because the totalitarian state always assumes that it has an absolute control over its citizens, it tends to confuse policies that are of advantage to it with loyalty to the state and its leaders.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'aspect'.
"The court has no choice but to assume that the prisoner is innocent until proven guilty.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "progress".
A good knowledge of computer science is useful for people who want to work in the financial industry and assume managerial responsibility.
Another form of bias results when people assume that some animals are ill-equipped to have enjoyable experiences.
"We have to assume they know we're coming," she says.
While the First World War resurrected the phenomenon of large-scale warfare, it was assumed that advancements in technology would prevent another all-out war for another hundred years.
I suppose many intelligent people assumed that he was on our side, because he lived in the house.
So I'm going to assume this is your first day.
It is unrealistic to assume that any problems within the family can be solved through the judicial system.
The increasing tendency of governments to assume responsibility for citizens' welfare has provided many new job opportunities not just for welders but also for workers in the service and care industries.
But it also suggests that rural inhabitants were more prepared to assume the support of rebels and other nonconformists than they might otherwise have been.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'as'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'affluent'.
They'd assume she had a right to be on her own, to make her own decisions.
He assumed the leadership of the company in 1901.
The most alarming thing is that a small group has assumed the right to determine which part of the population should be bred and which should not, based on superficialities such as hair and eye colour.
His assumption of power meant he ruled as an absolute dictator.
The second major assumption of the common-alience theory concerned differences in education and upbringing.
The purpose of the army was to enforce the decisions of the king, who assumed he had the right to do whatever he wanted.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'revelation'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "civil".
If you wish to make an 'A' in this course, you will have to learn how to play the game of classroom squabble.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'violent'.
We are always assuming that our world makes sense.The one we assume is the only possibility.
My opponent has assumed that the Middle Ages were dull and undesirable because of his own admitted ignorance of the glorious history of those times.
However, even if you do make the assumption that important genetic mutations only occur at a constant rate throughout evolutionary history, there are still difficulties.
"You're assuming that when we grow up we'll still be able to choose our career," said Vera.
1: "Scientists never assume, they investigate," you say.
I assume you're talking about the link between power and corruption.
