

#support

You ask the professor for a sentence containing "defense".
In fact, the main reason that the king supported Parliament was because he needed money to support his lavish lifestyle.
The use of slave-labor by the German army was never contemplated, as it would have had considerable implications for the Nazi state.
The ability of the United States to support a large standing army was a key advantage over its adversaries.
The Victorian outlook and values, then, can be seen as the support that maintained the British Empire.
While the information we have gained is certainly valuable, the only way it can be of any real support to us is if it allows us to make it back to our own time.
Early Christian churches supported early socialism and the labor movement.
"We do not always support the level of brainwashing that seems to go into educating people in saying what is really going on in the world."
The new experimental evidence supports the theory that the animals whose fossils were found were killed and fossilized in a sudden, violent flash flood.
One of the major problems with the Marxist theory is it doesn't really explain how the proletariat, or the working class, will rise up and support the revolution.
The scientific method is based on a system of peer review and publication, where scientists' work is published and vetted by other scientists in the field.
The main way in which he supported himself was by painting portraits of the rich and famous.
Although there is evidence that the British were giving native tribes small amounts of surplus weapons and ammunition during Pontiac's War, historians generally agree that did not play a major role in Chief Pontiac's decision to halt the siege of Fort Pitt
The support of the population was essential to maintenance of the plan.
The Electoral College system of electing a president is supported by the fact that it prevents a single city or region from electing a president alone.
One of the most important things that prevent war and other sorts violence is the rule of law.
The basis of the bill, introduced by State Senator Guery, is to support and maintain the public transportation system.
Since the invention of photography, paintings have lost their claim to truth and accuracy as paintings have become mere works of "art" as opposed to "documentation".
The wartime Prime Minister needed more resources and man power to support the war effort.
The government claimed that it was only the US's duty to support democracy throughout the world.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reason'.
Patents support innovation, so they encourage inventions without people having to pay for them.
However, the concept of support for a policy of "limited engagement" is nonetheless supported by all the sources we have discussed.
The money given by the Crown in support of these business ventures puts the king in great debt.
On the downside, although the constitution limited the power of kings or queens, it didn't lay out a system of government to "support" the limitation.
The bizarre arrangements of the bones also suggest that other bones, now missing, were removed for ceremonial uses, perhaps for inclusion in rituals or even to be fashioned into tools.
Furthermore, the evidence from both sides strongly supports the theory that ancient hunters died out.
radicals would support the Jacobins, a political group which gained
In the best-known version of the Shakespeare authorship question, the textual criticG. G.
The children's books that he wrote for his two daughters, Lewis Carroll's "Alice in Wonderland" and "Through the Looking-Glass", had been a spectacular success when they were published in 1866 and 1871 respectively.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'egalitarian'.
For example, it would be difficult for the state to support a large army without the help of the middle classes, which in turn might require more representation.
The possible meanings and implications of this seem to support the idea that there are areas in our brains that have yet to be fully understood
The violence in support of Irish independence intensified with the formation of the Irish Republican Army (IRA).
The evidence from several different fields of the human sciences--such as genetics, linguistics and archeology--support this idea.
Professor: The government supported these changes by promising to help with health care, education and other important issues for the family.
Nonetheless, while the middle class may have desired political reform and development, it did not want to support a revolution.
The Right's support for the free market is primarily a pragmatic one, rather than an ideological one.
His support for workers' rights included calling for an eight-hour workday, which at the time was virtually unheard of.
The aim of this support was to help the economy, which had been suffering from the effects of the oil crisis.
The monarch supported the expansion of the empire since it provided large quantities of resources.
I am not entirely convinced of the support you are giving for your argument.
The second way in which the government could have supported the farmers would have involved new technology.
Support for this revolt came from groups of peasants who were suffering from the consequences of the previous land reforms.
The two major supports for the communist government were the Red Army and the factory workers.
However, the historian's job is not necessarily to pass judgment but rather to provide an interpretation of the past that best explains all the evidence and supports the facts.
There is no clear support for this proposition.
The theme of the inability to change fate is a recurring one in Opera.
The study of the letters written home by soldiers during the Civil War showed that they were writing to family and friends for emotional support as much as for information or help
The reason behind this intense interest in the sport of kings was the opportunity it afforded the aristocracy to network and show off their expensive clothing.
The new information that's been uncovered since the Dead Sea scrolls were initially translated supports the theory that some parts of the Bible, such as the books of Isaiah, were written earlier than others.
The lack of large game animals in these areas forced the inhabitants to find other sources of food and because of this, permanent settlements, agriculture and ultimately civilisation eventually developed.
The biggest supporter of North America's invasion was the government's desire to spread democracy to an area that badly needed it.
The Nationalist government gained support from industrialists, who appreciated its pro-business policies.
The concept of human dignity has traditionally received its chief support from the major Western religions.
The trees along the riverbanks not only provided support for crops and animals but also help prevent erosion of the soil as well as decrease flooding.
The theory of evolution was strongly supported by the fossil evidence that Charles Darwin had uncovered in South America.
"Where they burn books, in the end they will also burn human beings."
Support for the theory came from several linguists who had independently discovered that the words for mother, father, I, you, tooth and other body parts were always placed in the same order in every language.
The idea of the scientific support behind the health benefits of wine consumption is quite complex and requires detailed explanation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'early'.
They also claimed that their network was designed to support terrorists and said its fall would be a major blow to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'independence'.
In 1066, England gained independence from Denmark.
The declaration of interests is designed to provide the debate chair with a list of potential conflicts of interest that they can then assess and if necessary ask the debater to exclude certain arguments from their speech on the basis that it would give them an unfair advantage
This discovery supported the theory that the Egyptian ruler was also a successful warrior who ruled over his neighbours.
It is not now possible to find any support for the concept of 'affluent poverty' in which some people have lots of money and power, but others are desperately poor.
The student movement led the demand for support for impoverished countries in the 1960s, and later this developed into the Green movement, which is very influential in German politics.
Professor: The main reason for this is the fact that the Catholic Church has supported the idea of balanced budgets since medieval times.
Meanwhile, workers' support for the Bolsheviks increased.
It is a historical fact that Prime Minister Nimi encouraged the use of torture to gain confessions from the people who opposed him and that he sentenced them to death regardless of their age.
But there is virtually no archaeological evidence to support this theory.
The main support for these theories came from a new branch of mathematics, statistics.
Those that support gun control argue that it is necessary to reduce the effects of gun violence, especially in a country with such easy access to guns.
The League's support for the Italians was also influenced by the fact that Italy was an easy and defenseless target.
The only thing that currently supports the theory is three ambiguous bone fragments of a single individual.
Sustainable Tourism tends to be supported by people within the destination who believe that the extra resources and money from tourism will help their country reach its economic goals faster.
Concrete shelters, such as the one we are sitting in right now, were set up all over London to support the population in case of bombing raids.
The ruling class in every American state was determined to support the war effort and not allow British agents to spread dissent and resistance.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'immediately'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "conform".
The main pillar of his support was the church: the Christian Democracy party was not just a political party, it was also a faith.
So far, the bill has encountered very little opposition or support in the House of
The major support for the League of Nations was Great Britain, France and the United States.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'ideology'.
Professor: As the American navy had been a major factor in the defeat of the pirates and as it then mainly used sail power, it was natural that it should begin to use steam as a means of propulsion.
Unfortunately, this evidence is far from conclusive. We have little else to support its existence.
The findings of this research support the theory that people aren't meant for space.
The most striking thing about our most recent ancestor is that he/she was not a chimpanzee, as most people think, but another species entirely. However, like chimpanzees, this species went extinct while humans continued to develop and thrive.
None of the colonial powers had a substantial imperial presence in Sub-Saharan Africa.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'reform'.
The buildings and walls of the city were well-designed for defence, but provided little support to those within during a siege.
Word order is called a constituent in a sentence chiefly;
The main way in which the townspeople supported the king was by paying money.
The best way to support the troops is to withdraw them from Iraq as quickly as possible.
During the following year the two companies (the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and the Standard Oil Company of New York) gave active support to a bill in the New York legislature aimed at South Improvement Company.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "government".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "secret".
Momentum in war is important, and a reversal at one front could bring down an entire empire, as the decline of the Ottoman Empire demonstrated.
In fact, he claimed that the court had no powers of judicial review at all; its functions were purely advisory, and it could only support or propose laws, not invalidate them.
There is no evidence that the two men ever met and in fact Smith's diary entries imply he was never supportive of Keynes' theories.
The main goal in Inform is to build up a story, and to do so you need to support that story with clues in the form of objects for the player to find.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "modern".


#symbolise

The British monarchy officially symbolises the unity between England and Scotland.
The tarpaulin sheet symbolises for many the futility of war.
The reason why the English symbolise victory with a laurel wreath isn't difficult to guess.
The Taj Mahal is a symbol that still exerts a great influence on Indian culture.
Zakir Husain symbolised the best qualities of India; he adopted a daughter, naming her "India" to symbolise his love for the country.
In his speech he hoped that the massive protests that took place around the world symbolised a new era of unity between the nations of the world.
The Taj Mahal, erected for the love-stricken Empress Mumtaz Mahal by the Emperor Shah Jahan, symbolises the ecstasy of love.
The paintings therefore symbolise the period when western art was dominated by the use of religious symbols.
By burning him the Catholics were able to turn him into a Protestant saint, symbolising the triumph of the true faith over heresy and schism.
A notable feature of the buildings in which they worship is that they completely lack any significant architectural features; a fact that is frequently 'symbolized' in graffiti found in toilets.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "takeover".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'elaborate'.
The procedure was extremely elaborate and costly.
The Empire, with its imposing hierarchy and rigid symbolism, has been seen as symbolising the extent of Roman power and dominance.
For example, aristocrats and kings in the past symbolised their power by wearing certain types of clothing.
Symbolism was also important in the less complex societies which lacked writing, and some believe that it remains important even in modern, written cultures, where it is often more subtle and indirect.
"The more things change, the more they symbolise the same thing." – Jean-Baptiste Alphonse Karr, novelist and journalist
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apocalyptic'.
The very fact that a middle class exists to a large extent in most western societies and the fact that it symbolises the values of hard work, thrift, self-reliance, and individualism is perhaps the main reason why the middle class
The 20th-century German thinker Heidegger was fascinated by Albert Einstein, whose work in physics symbolised for him that mankind was attaining a new level of intellect that could be used to understand the world rationally and scientifically.
The monarchy was a symbol of unity in France, and the fact that the French republic became the next form of government seemed to symbolize that there was no going back to monarchism.
The strong nationalistic feelings that the constitution symbolised.
However, in the late 19th century industrialisation replaced agriculture as the main source of employment in England, and the workers who had toiled in the nation's factories for generations came to symbolize the working class.
However, other historians believe that the stone pillars themselves symbolised major geographical landmarks rather than specific tribal areas.
To many American children, the great American author Mark Twain symbolises an enjoyment of reading.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'resisting'.
In The Grapes of Wrath, Steinbeck symbolises the plight of the Okies to enable the reader to sympathize with them.
The Statue of Liberty, which represents Libertas, the goddess of freedom, symbolises American values of freedom from tyranny.
Cobblestones symbolized the rigid and ossified nature of the bureaucratic system.
However, throughout the war, the Allied leaders met and discussed various subjects by sending messages to one another through soldiers who were chosen for their speed, reliability and knowledge of their respective languages. These people are known as "runners"
The Taj Majal, built by the Indian ruler, Shah Jahan as a mausoleum to hold the grave of his wife, symbolises undying love in the popular imagination.
The black hooded figure, w
Nelson's column and other symbols of British imperialism were erected throughout the colonies to symbolise the dominance of the British Empire
The cat became a symbolise of Egypt due to its prominence in ancient Egyptian art and mythology; here, the goddess Bastet is seen dominating a rat, a symbol of decay.
Religions traditionally symbolised the end of life as an opportunity for the soul to rest from its tribulations and depart for another place.
The Taj Mahal was built by Emperor Shah Jahan to symbolise the love he had for his deceased wife Mumtaz Mahal.
The Great Wall of China symbolises the strength of feudalism in the Middle Ages.
After the end of the Second World War, the swastika is a and still symbolises rage, tyranny and depravity to most of the world.
However,both effectively symbolised the beginning of the end of the dominance of religion in British public life.
The animals that smell bad, or sing off-key, or are in some other way unpleasant to humans are likely to become extinct, because they are not around to be symbolised in art.
The Coca-Cola bottle symbolises modern western culture in 'Coke ads broadcast in immense television markets such as the US.
In British English, the colour symbolises innocence (as in the nursery rhyme ‘Ring a Ring o' Roses').
The way people choose to wear particular clothes or other items can symbolize their religious or political beliefs.
The burning of Washington by the British during the War of 1812 symbolised America's weakness.
"The Panthéon in Paris symbolised the ideals of the French Revolution.
"The Lord of the Flies" symbolises the essential controversy over the nature of humanity: whether humans are essentially good or evil.
However it symbolised the end of an era, and the beginning of a new era of free thought without religious persecution, for which the thinkers of the French enlightenment had been arguing for decades.
From its very beginning in 1866 when the first trains were run between Glasgow and Dumbarton and between Edinburgh and Berwick, the North British Railway was a financial success.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'perceive'.
And so, you cannot perceive the, in truth invisible, air current.
The Taj Majal, an elaborate mausoleum in Agra symbolises the love of Emperor Shah Jahan for his favourite wife, who died during childbirth.
The city of Vigan in the Philippines is famous for its 'legendary' tiled rooftops and balconies, which the local tour guides mythify into a story of star-crossed lovers.
The Taj Mahal symbolises the love that the Mughal Emperor, Shah Jahan had for his Persian princess, Arjumand.
And now at last it is ready to begin its long and fateful role - which we symbolize by the cutting of this tape - in the story of man's conquest, not of territory but of the universe.
The Statue of Liberty, which became a symbolise of freedom and democracy after the American Civil War, was given to the US by France.
The reason why the Great Pyramids symbolize ancient Egypt, for example, is that without them ancient Egypt would not have existed.
Shakespeare's plays are said to have strongly symbolised the transition from Medieval society into the modern era.
Specifically, the Nationalists were concerned that the social and political gains that had been made by blacks in recent years would be symbolised by allowing former American president, Nelson Mandela to enter the city.
The palace is a symbol of power in the Baroque style.
The great cathedrals of the medieval period symbolised man's humble submission to a higher authority, through their scale, beauty and ornate decoration.
The American Empire is perhaps the most obvious symbol of past Western imperialism, having spread its culture, language and influence throughout the world.
The Uniao dos Catienuscripts, written in the 1530s, were the main group of literary manuscripts written in Portuguese in Habsburg ruled Hindustani and are also believed to symbolize the introduction of print media into Portuguese.
Additionally, the cross on the Connecticut flag symbolises the Christianity of the state's original settlers.
The horse skeleton found in Siberia, dated to about 40,000 years ago, is part of the evidence which leads some scientists to believe that humans symbolised ideas and feelings.
Bathed in the bright morning light, as it shines upon your face, you take a deep breath and look over at your beloved's sleeping face. The innocence that symbolises her sleeping form makes you feel a pang of guilt.
The burning of the INQ signified the start of a new era of free and independent journalism in Nequa.
The Washington Monument on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., symbolizes the United States and its government.
The movement of African-Americans in the United States from discrimination to a position of greater racial equality symbolised the start of a new era.
During the period of peak sun worship in the Roman Empire, the narratives and symbols of the religion were elements of an elaborate system of popular entertainment that thoroughly permeated all levels of Roman society.
The British used the League of Nations as a symbolise their new, progressive image, due to its aims of achieving world peace and the fact it stopped a German attempt to re-arm.
The lambency of the moon symbolises Elizabeth's emotional need for expression and her feelings of frustration.
Brunel's sculptures on the front of the building symbolized the new industrial age.
Symbolism became an especially prominent art style in France at this time.
The Taj Mahal, built by the Emperor Shah Jahan in 1648, symbolises the splendour of Mughal architecture.
The Taj Mahal, built by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan to symbolise his love for his empress, is one of the world's most famous buildings.
For example, the circle had long been a symbol of perfection and unity and the cross a symbol of divine rule and authority.
The Taj is an example of Islamic art at its most ornate and it symbolises the Islamic domination of India.
Black cats have been regarded as omens of ill-luck and misfortune for so long that they have almost become symbols of such things.
The painting symbolises human mortality; the figures are skeletal, and the extended wings of the harp are broken.
The capitol building is a symbol of a government's legitimacy and ability to rule.
The Taj Mahal is a mausoleum that was built by an Indian ruler called Shah Jahan as a symbolise of his love for his favourite wife.
The Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty were both intended to symbolize American independence and freedom.
However, in their paintings the artist's usually symbolize death with the image of a skeleton.
The Giza pyramids, built around 4,500 years ago, symbolise ancient Egypt's peak of power and civilisation in many people's minds.
The burning of the Reichstag came to symbolise the beginning of Hitler's control of Germany.
The discovery that DNA was the carrier of hereditary traits and its successful extraction and subsequent duplication in a lab, symbolised the unlocking of the human genome.
Some historians have gone so far as to symbolise the decline with the fate of one martyr - the monk Galen.
However, the Pueblo tribe of Native Americans are descendants of the builders of Chaco Canyon Fort and continue to symbolize their ancient bond with 'the spirit world'.
However, the British monarchy symbolises tradition and religious faith.
However, his most lasting legacy was the creation of the so-called 'Empire Day', which is still ongoing.
The Taj Mahal was built by the Emperor Shah Jahan as a symbolise of his love for his empress, whom he misses very much.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'amalgamation'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'parliamentary'.
The parliamentary term was four or five years in Britain and France.
The Taj represents eternal love as well as the triumph of good over evil, symbolising the end of Shah Jahan's grief after the death of his wife Mumtaz Mahal.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "activist".
The novels symbolise the confusion between appearance and reality that is a prominent theme in the works of Thomas Pynchon.
The different style of clothing and architecture that the rich wore and lived in was used to symbolise how much power and influence they had.
Paleolithic cave paintings and carvings are some of the earliest examples of human's symbolic thought.
The old empire is symbolised by a sculpture of two humans and two gargoyles carved out of white marble.
Samuel has been chosen to symbolise the city's achievements.
The Taj Mahal is a very impressive building which symbolises the love that its builder had for his wife.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modernization".


#synthesis

The extraordinary success of the book prompted Jacob to propose a synthesis of the entire human knowledge.
The early European banking centers, most notably those in Italy and Switzerland, retained the older traditions of basing the value of a currency on precious metals.
The second generation of quantum physicists carried out further experiments to support Heisenberg's work, but also extended the theory of quantum physics with the revolutionary new concept of quantum mechanics.
The establishment of town schools led to the development of education as a separate academic field and the birth of education studies.
The use of nickel in anodes seems to produce a more complete and faster reaction than conventional-type iron or copper.
The purpose of the book was to present a theory that combined various ideas.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "hydrocarbon".
The Nazi's interpretation of a future utopia was very much a synthesis of various national ideals mixed with anti-Semitic ideologies.
Another example of special pleading is the attempt at a synthesis between intelligent design and Darwinism by people like Michael Behe who try to maintain that the existence of irreducibly complex designs imply a designer.
During the second half of the 19th century, there was a growing realisation that there were huge differences between the established sciences and various fields such as history and philosophy which were not sciences at all but attempted syntheses of multiple complex ideas.
The Marxist philosophy of dialectical materialism combined with the economic theory of socialism was a synthesis in the writings on both Marx and Engels, which ultimately became the sole definition of Marxist ideology.
Mendel's laws were largely forgotten until a century after his death, when they were rediscovered and refined by other scientists, creating a new field of science, known as the Modern Synthesis.
The leading thinkers of the period were synthesizing ideas from the ancient Greeks and Romans.
Charles Darwin's theory of evolution was largely a theory about the origins of diversity in nature, but combined with Gregor Mendel's theory of genetics, which deals with diversity within species, it would form the basis of all modern theories of evolution.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'attitude'.
The fusion of the arts and scientific inquiry that characterized Italian humanism was largely missing in German humanism.
The central theme of Lasker's works was the possibility of a synthesis between the concepts of class struggle and the problems of bureaucracy.
The theory of evolution has undergone a 'synthetic' phase in the last century as biologists discovered two vital processes that were not known to Darwin:
In art, the term synthesis refers to a combination of different genres in one work.
Synthesis, from Latin meaning bind together, is the combining of two things to form a single entity.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'efficiency'.
Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalysis, developed his theories primarily through doing hundreds of case studies on his patients, especially those suffering from hysteria.
In the 19th century, most chemists believed that all known substances could be broken down into a set of simple, or 'elementary', ingredients.
The European synthesis was an attempt by historians during the 1950s to integrate the various approaches of history into a single one.
The chief architect of this synthesis, Alfred Russel Wallace, did extensive fieldwork in the Far East and was independent of Darwin in working out the principles of evolution.
The purpose of the First Vatican Council, as stated by the bishops in attendance, was to
During the early Age of Enlightenment in 18th century the concept of a universally applicable, rational and objective approach to knowledge gained hold.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'initiating'.
The movement that would eventually produce modern Communism began with the synthesis of two seemingly contradictory philosophies.
However, the explanation that best fits the facts is the synthesis theory.
Professor:Synthesizing these ideas leads us to the conclusion that it is possible for us to feel sympathy without being emotionally moved or to be moved without feeling sympathy.
The humanism of the Renaissance is a period of great creativity and optimism in the arts and literature.
The computer is probably the most important single invention of the twentieth century.
By the end of the 19th century, two discoveries had been made: a human-like fossil species, the Neanderthal, had been identified in Germany, and it was shown that beneath the surface layer of the earth was a substance called uranium
The Marxist theory of historical materialism was first set out by Karl Marx in his book The Communist Manifesto.
At the end of the 19th century, a German scientist combined the ideas in a synthesis that is still used by many anthropologists today.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'committee'.
He said, "I don't want to get a group of people together to decide what I'm going to do."
Charles Darwin's theory of evolution is one of the most important scientific theories of all time.
At the time, revolutionary groups were being proposed such as the dictatorship of the proletariat, which was gaining support in some circles.
The political doctrine known as fascism is used by the historians to mean a synthesis of authoritative, repressive Nationalism with some socialist or leftist economics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'diversification'.
In all fields of intellectual life, a general synthesis was being achieved, bringing all the bits and pieces of knowledge into a coherent pattern.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "elaborated".
The Roman Catholic Church had an order to kill anyone who supported the synthesis.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "informative".
The above three theories can be synthesized to create a more complete understanding of the origins and spread of AIDS.
However, an alternative theory of state development was offered in the 1920s by a group of Marxist theorists led by the German linguist and revolutionary socialist, Karl August Wittfogel.
The process of synthesizing ideas is similar in many ways to the traditional scientific method.
I think it was in the late 1800's when some chemists discovered that different elements, such as carbon, oxygen and nitrogen, had similar properties.
Curiously enough, the synthesis of ammonia was based on a method first used by the Italian chemist, Ascanio Sobrero, in the late 19th century.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modernization".
In the 19th century, Marxism was combined with early ideas of socialism to form Marxism "Lenninism" or Bolshevism.
In the first half of the 19th century there was much debate among chemists on the best way to classify and name chemicals.
Otto Loewi's a Nobel-prize winning German scientist who in 1921ts proposed a synthesis of two competing theories of neural communication; the chemical theory and the neuron theory.
In the first half of the nineteenth century, geologists succeeded in constructing a broad synthesis of observations and data into a common theory of earth history.
Many of the ideas of the English Romantics seem strange to us today because they were part of a "romantic-classical synthesis"
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'Vietnamization'.
In its broadest sense, the theory's synthesis of Darwninism and Mendelian genetics is still very widely accepted today.
Some historians are cautious about such a synthesis of different approaches to history.
However, the main problem with a lot of his ideas was the lack of sources: he seemed to be relying on uncorroborated stories and anecdotes, so his work couldn't be considered particularly reliable.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "strategic".
An air and naval blockade, or the threat of one, has been an important part of U.S.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "initiative".
The Enlightenment thinker believed that the power of humanity to reason effectively would lead, after reflection, to people uniting for peace and prosperity.
A theory or idea that synthesizes two or more concepts or systems, especially in a way that makes them compatible, reconciles contradictions between them, or combines various of their useful elements while discarding others.
Synthetic drugs are created in pharmaceutical laboratories, unlike heroin, which comes from opium poppies and cocaine, which comes from coca leaves.
The union movement took a major step in the direction of eventual integration by accepting blacks as members and affording them equal rights, but it stopped short of demanding that their employers immediately implement desegregation and hiring practices.
Many 19th-century authors tried to synthesise their ideas, but without much success.
The totalitarian governments of Italy and Germany in the 1920's and early 1930's made a dangerous synthesis of extreme nationalism with the ideas of socialism.
However, the most important event of the period from the perspective of socialism was the synthesis of Marxism and Socialism, known as Communism.
The theory of evolution was developed and proposed by Charles Darwin in his book, "On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection."
The first task of the philosopher is to analyse verbal concepts, distinctions, and distinctions of indifference in such a way that they become fused, connected, and consequently superfluous prima facie judgments are eliminated.
Most importantly, the discipline of genetics was born through the work of several scientists who worked independently and by 1917, had discovered the fundamental principles of heredity on which all future work in the field would rely.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "contrast".
Alfred visited London to show that he could implement his own ideas in the marble halls of the recently completed Royal Albert Hall, but instead found himself faced with the task of synthesizing the two approaches.
The Marxist theory that industry is inherently oppressive and leads to the development of classes, and its defence against criticism by Revisionists.
The U.S. economy grew rapidly after World War II due chiefly to the stimulus provided by defense spending, the rapid development of a mass consumer economy and the expansion of the "service" sector.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'principle'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'constructive'.
A new version of the periodic table was needed, so in 1869 Dmitri Mendeleev published his 'new' periodic table, which was in fact a synthesis of all the elements that were known at that time.
One of the major developments in biology during the first half of the twentieth century, was the reconciliation of the ideas of the major schools of thought, such as Lamarckism and Darwinism, in a synthesis that would become known as neo-Dar
The final step of the third synthesis is the incorporation of all musical elements of the piece into one another.
Lamarck had no time for the idea of extinction; he believed organisms were "perfected" over time, and would continue to live and grow until the earth was filled with immortal animals that had achieved a sort of perfection.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "immediately".
In the second half of the century, however, the two competing doctrines were synthesized in a more complete theory of evolution.
The concrete ultimately became a standard building material, replacing stone, brick, and plaster due to its greater strength and speed of construction.
The achievements of the ancient Greeks, the geometric theories of the 19th century, and the ancient Indian concept of irrational numbers all contributed to the idea of a mathematical synthesis.
At the end of the 19th century a new art form was created by the German composer Sir Karlheinz Stockhausen, an innovative blend of the apparently contrasting styles of classical and electronic music, which he called 'synthesizer
Another type of challenge to the traditional discipline-based organization comes from the recent emphasis on synthesizing knowledge from different fields.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'essential'.
The term "synthesis" was later used by Hans Eysenck as one of the names for his theory of intelligence, which emphasizes the role of biology in determining IQ.
With the rise of analytical chemistry, the science of analyzing ingredients in substances such as food and drugs to find out their chemical composition became increasingly precise and accurate.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'concept'.
Their chief criticism is that the theory does not explain how language evolved, but instead attempts to synthesis (combine) unrelated theories.
John F. Kennedy's speech is a classic example of the American ‘political synthesis' of liberalism and conservatism.
The word 'synthesis' refers to an 'interpretation' of the available information that allows us to form a new and improved theory.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'proving'.
The synthesis of the two disciplines of medicine and nursing during World War I led to a major change in the nature of medical knowledge.
The Sino-Japanese War of 1894-95 was a conflict that saw Japan defeat China, setting the stage for Imperialist Japan to emerge as a major power in the years to come.
The synthetic theory of evolution states that new genetic variation is produced by the interplay of selection among random mutations.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'conclusions'.


#synthesize

The first attempt at synthesizing an artificial gene was made in 2008 by a team of geneticists.
The anti-war movement of the 1960s and 1970s has had to some extent a lasting effect, the U.S. military being one of the few government institutions that was not visibly strengthened by it.
Besides the new understanding of the human brain provided by the new science of neurology, and Marconi's latest wireless transmission of signals across the Atlantic, three other major themes or areas that are intimately related to this new field of knowledge have emerged:
He had a hard time synthesizing the information that he had gathered and needed time to ponder on it.
"The intelligent layman has always struggled to synthesize two conflicting ideas," he said.
He was able to synthesize anthropology, biology and psychology into a coherent whole.
The civilization of classical Greece synthesized a culture that is still relevant
The task of synthesizing these reports on your own would take you the remainder of the semester.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'social'.
A shocked female student suddenly stands up to object at one of the answers just given.
The study of animal behavior is important since it can be used to synthesize certain aspects of animal behavior for use in robotics.
He took the best parts of the various plans they had been reading in the papers lately and tried to synthesize them into something that might actually work.
The second element of the Industrial Revolution were new chemical industries, in particular the coal-based textile industry, which required large amounts of energy.
The main goal of the Constitutional Convention was to synthesize the republican and democratic elements of the frameworks established by the various state governments.
Another law was passed in 1884 to prevent Chinese laborers from ever entering the country and to prevent those already residing in the USA from ever becoming citizens.
Ehrenstein's most important work, in my opinion at least, was his synthesis of many advances into a new and more rigorous approach to history, the "Grundprinzipien der Historik"
Professor:Diderot's major works were written in the eighteenth century, when he was attempting to synthesize a great deal of knowledge, as vast quantities of new information was coming to light.
In the second, Semra single-handedly tried to invade the town of Sinkhole and was soundly defeated by the goblins, who have always been excellent scouts and skirmishers.
Renaissance thinkers made a significant attempt to synthesize the works of the ancient Greeks and Romans into a unified whole, seeking out common truths in what were often very disparate theories.
The intent of the early German educational reforms in the 16th and 17th centuries was to synthesize the theories of classical education with the needs of the emergi
The historian's job is to try to synthesize past events , and then analyze that synthesis.
A study of religion would be meaningless if it didn't try to synthesize more specialized studies of language, culture, history and society.
Synthesize the following sentences into one coherent paragraph entitled "My Day at the Museum".
The two main reasons why the Nazis decided to try to assimilate the conquered territory's population rather than exterminate them were firstly that most Germans, including Hitler, didn't believe the Holocaust was necessary to begin with, and secondly it was impossible
On July 15, Gavrikov arrived at the Rask frontier with a plan to synthesize six million cans of food.
Bertrand Russell's "The Problems of Philosophy" was one of the first attempts to study philosophy using logic and precision, skills that are usually thought of as more relevant to mathematics than to philosophy.
"He came up with a new theory that was a synthesis of two earlier theories."
Lead imitates gold, but this yellow metal is more consistent and durable, so it is used in its place to synthesize radioisotopes for medical use.
The project's mission was to assemble and analyze all data pertaining to the human genome, combining the goals of genome sequencing and analysis.
The social sciences synthesized many of the findings of the natural sciences, especially in the field of biology.
The two conflicting theories were synthesized into a new theory that the
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'qualities'.
The totalitarian governments of the twentieth century synthesized a powerful nationalism and an omnipresent security apparatus that provided a fair degree of control over their subjects.
The field of genetics has been revolutionized through the recent ability to synthesize DNA.
The data we've been able to collect so far will require extensive synthesis and interpretation.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'indigenous'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'repertoire'.
I'm pretty sure you can't find the word anywhere in this paragraph.
The American historian Daniel J.
The composer was too gifted to be restricted to one style, and it was necessary for him to synthesize his musical influences with his own creativity.
A significant contribution to the study of human evolution was the synthesis of the information derived from skeletons, fossils and DNA.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'theory'.
It was able to synthesize amino acids, the building blocks of protein.
The first effective treatment for SAD has only been available since the 1990s, when a combination of daily exposure to bright light during the morning and the evening was found to be an effective means of treating the condition.
The first task he set his students was to synthesise a particular hormone, which amazingly enough has the same chemical formula as a headache remedy.
The well-preserved remains were combined to reconstruct the entire skeleton, which was then placed in a museum where it could be used as a reference for similar skeletons in the future.
One can now usefully and reliably synthesize previously unobtainable hormones, which is useful for the treatment of many diseases.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'dialect'.
A dialect is a variety of language used by a group of people that live in a particular region.
In addition, this information will teach you to synthesize that knowledge in a way that is most beneficial for the patient.
Xenophon believed that the purpose of the republic was to enable all citizens to realize their full potential and live a meaningful life.
She would also use experimental data of her own to help the student synthesize information from various sources.
The reason for this was to synthesize the structure of the virus in the body itself.
The authors synthesize the information in an accessible, well-written form.
In an attempt to synthesize the two theories, the philosopher created the viewpoint that there are two ways of knowing, using his own field of study as an example.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'inseparable'.
The new textbook will help students to synthesize all the material learned in class.
"What you are calling ‘magic' is merely a synthesis of certain elements that you believe are only found in the earth, but which can be manipulated to create something that looks like magic to the ignorant eye."
The Marxist theory tries to synthesize the two opposing views of class conflict and equal opportunity.
If one looks at the first thirteen American colonies as a single unit,one sees that the most important goal of England and the colonies was not trade but rather mutual [synthesis?].
I had the identification tags that we found during an archaeological excavation synthesized at a local jeweler's and they are now engraved on the back of my wedding ring.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "conclusion".
Darwin's theory of natural selection synthesised work done by others before he explained it in 1859.
The novel's major themes include the struggle between good and evil, and the ways in which people are shaped by their environment.
A major contribution to the field of genetics came in 1953 with the publication of the Watson and Crick paper determining the structure of DNA, Deoxyribonucleic acid, synthesizing evolutionary theory and genetic research.
The seven congressmen were the only advocates of immediate and total sanctions against South Africa, and their resolution was defeated by a bipartisan majority.
Kant wanted an individual to be able to synthesize their own understanding of any knowledge that was given to them.
Musical synthesizers allow a composer to quickly create a wide range of sounds and textures never before available.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'myth'.
The 18th-century German philosopher and writer Gotthold Ephraim Lessing is most famous for synthesizing the works of Shakespeare into a single piece.
The American chemist Linus Pauling won a 1954 Nobel prize for his work in the fields of chemistry and quantum mechanics, and for his work in the field of synthesizing complex molecules, most notably proteins.
The first real progress in the synthesis of DNA was achieved in 1973 by Robert Holley, a scientist working for American biotechnology company, Genentech.
His goal was to synthesize a chemical that would cure malaria.
The new documentary reveals that the government's treatment of the prisoners was just as inhumanely bad as everyone had always believed it to be, but it does not synthesize a clear opinion of whether or not present-day imprisonment is moral.
The major challenge of the 1700s was how to successfully synthesize quinine.
"The oldest method of making plastics was discovered in 1869, but it wasn't until 1907 that any real attempt at 'synthesizing' or creating new plastic materials was attempted."
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'modern'.
The term "synthesize" was first used in 1877 by Alexander A. Findlay.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "moralists".
The moralists in Europe during the
One of the theories that will attempt to synthesize these various approaches is the Dr. William Harvey's Circulation Theory.
The two theories we've been discussing helped to synthesize the process of scientific discovery
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "modernization".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'thesis'.
The purpose of your study is to synthesize a model for the volume of an irregular pyramid given the height, base side and surface area.
A period of experimentation and theory consolidation took place during which time the main ideas of existentialism were synthesized into a more or less coherent system by Jean-Paul Sartre.
The industrial revolution caused a huge population explosion, but this was accompanied by an
The 20th century is often referred to as the "Century of Biology", because so much of what we understand about ourselves and the world around us comes from advances in Biological Science.
The first step to synthesize the vitamin is to isolate it from the rice.
The scientific work that had been done up to the middle of the eighteenth century had mainly been to break down theories and hypotheses into their separate parts, or to focus on one particular area.
There are conflicting views about whether to synthesize a vaccine or not.
He urged the massive undertaking of a synthesis of all the knowledge about human language, begun by the late professor Chomsky and his colleagues at M.I.T.
The two theories were synthesized into a process called Continental Drift.
The neo-Darwinians synthesized the discoveries of Mendel and Darwin into a new theory of evolution.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'hypothesis'.
It is important to synthesize scientific facts with morality in order to make a rational decision.
The Mexican government should immediately create a program that would attempt to synthesize the most useful plants found in the jungles such as quinine.
The main difficulty with the theory is that it has traditionally been very difficult to synthesize the toxic chemical.
"The Marxist theory of history and the concept of social class were synthesized in his mind."
During the lifetime of Charles Darwin, Gregor Mendel's work on genetics was rediscovered. Their combined findings led to a new school of thought called neo-Darwinism, or Synthetic Theory.
The main reason for the failure of the German Communists to synthesize a policy capable of appealing to the middle classes and the proletariat was their dogmatic Marxist perspective.
The purpose of the paper was to synthesize a proposal for the government.
When Watt "synthesized" his ideas for a more efficient steam engine in 1769, he turned to famed instrument maker John Wilkinson for help building a model; Wilkinson was skilled at making precision metal parts.


#systematic

But as a Christian you must have some hope, and I think the Creation certainly provides a reliable systematic foundation for our lives.
The systematic extermination of Jews was attempted in many German-occupied parts of Eastern Europe.
The development of mass production in the 19th century led to increased urbanization, as people moved from their farms to work in the factories. This in turn created massive growth in population, and a greater demand for food.
The great West African empires of the Songhai, Mali and Ghana were vast and rich but by the sixteenth century, the Islamic states of Northern Africa had begun to invade.
Darwin's 'Theory of Evolution' proposed a logical and systematic progression from simple life forms to complex life forms.
The Peace of Westphalia was a series of treaties signed between May and October 1648, which ended both the Thirty Years' War and the Eighty Years' War.
The excavation of ancient Roman baths was a very systematic process.
Rousseau believed that a gallstone operation was a perfect example of a surgical procedure, because it involved cutting open the body, required great skill on the surgeon's part, and could be fatal if anything went wrong.
It was never proved that the sultan attempted to exterminate the whole male population of Cyprus in what seems to have been a systematic campaign.
Thinkers in the Enlightenment tended to use rational, systematic thought rather than religion, tradition or superstition to explain events.
This is a list of many systematic actions taken in the early part of the twentieth century that all but ended slavery:
The most important discovery of the stone age is probably the development of the wheel and systematic agriculture.
The Fascists attempted to purge Italy of all of its systematic political opposition through intimidation, censorship and violence.
The library has a large and important section on systematic theology, but it's often overlooked by undergraduates.
However, by the twentieth century, more advanced techniques had been developed, such as systematic desensitization, which gradually replaced hypnotism.
The systematic extermination of the Jews by the Nazi regime in World War II is one of the best documented examples of genocide in human history.
The survey, carried out in the 1980s, involved women aged between 45 and 49 who had experienced their first child's birth between January 1984 and December 1985.
'Systematic means 'organized, thorough, rule-based, regular and using a set of steps'. The doctor will use systematic approach to diagnosis your symptoms.
The systematic extermination of the Jews was planned down to the last grotesque detail.
Karl was an intelligent child and his fascination with numbers and systems became obvious to everyone when he learned the alphabet at an age when other children still struggled with simple words.
The most profitable way to hunt deer would be to employ a system of organized, or systematic, hunting.
For three days, the Catholics systematically burned every Anabaptist family they found in Zurich.
The League was stopped from trading with the outside world and started to fall into poverty as its only industry became systematic alcohol production.
The battle of Crecy, fought in northern France in 1346, was the first major battle of the Hundred Years' War.
Marx's systematic critique of Hegel's theory of the state helped shape his own theory of communism.
The problem with the Red Guards were that they saw enemies everywhere and so they weren't very systematic or efficient in their rooting out of potential counter-revolutionaries.
The first task is to try to train your brain to use logic and reasoning in a systematic way.
Ironically, although it seemed to be planned and systematic, the genocide of the Jews actually played out in a quite incoherent way.
The Nazis went on to implement their ideas in a ruthless systematical way: rounding up the homeless, beggars and the unemployed and sending them to newly built labour camps.
If you're writing an anthropology paper, you should use the systematics, a branch of science, to classify your culture.
With its many citations of ancient Indian belief systems (Tibetan Buddhism and Jainism, for instance), the book reveals a highly systematic approach.
The development of systematic botanical classification gave rise to the science of chemistry.
In addition to the situation in the German-occupied areas, there was a second front, in the East and on the Mediterranean shores; these were not liberated as swiftly as the first front, especially since Germany had withdrawn much of its forces from there
New methods of farming driven by the development of a range of heavy plows and longer lasting seeds that could be systematically planted and harvested created a consistent surplus of food.
During the 1830s Belgium began to develop a system of universal, free public education that was to reach every corner of the country and impose a common curriculum.
Benito Mussolini began to institute totalitarian controls over Italian society, including the press, a strict new employment system, and 'patriotic education' in schools.
The way in which animals or plants are classified into groups.
The experiments were done in a methodical way, following a strict protocol.
So, the issue of systematic education was no longer an issue at the time.
However, there is still room within the evolutionary theory for more than one kind of process. In general, macroevolution seems to be a more systematic process, while microevolution is not.
This level of mass killing was made possible by the development of automatic weapons and other advances in twentieth-century warfare.
During the 5 years from 1995 to 2000, the number of cholera cases identified each year in Zimbabwe ranged from 899 up to 988 with a total of 40 fatalities, the highest annual total occurring in 1998 when 28 people died.
The development of a systematic approach to accountancy did more to create opportunities for women than the professions themselves, which were still closed to them.
And so the theory of the four bodily humours, which had been completely debunked by Galen, was systematically reintroduced by these authors.
The most common theory is known as the 'systematic' theory.
In keeping with this, the kind of mass production that went into building the first industrial city had never been attempted before on such a systematic scale.
The questions you were asked were as follows.
A further problem with the study of the organization of power in ancient societies is the lack of available written records; archaeologists have to rely on indirect evidence from things like settlement layouts and grave goods for their "systematic"
Robespierre, an Enlightenment philosophe, thought that the best way to solve France's social problems was through a systematical reorganization of French society by the government.
The use of systematic torture in medieval Europe finally became unacceptable when it began to be employed against the governing classes, the very people who supported it.
Freedom of religion was not granted until the adoption of the Bill of Rights in 1791 and even then it was limited to Christians, causing many non-Christians to protest.
The army developed a far more systematic approach to gathering intelligence about the enemy.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "anticlericalism".
One of the earliest instances of the systematic destruction of a culture was that of the Romans' destruction of the ancient Druids following their conquering of Celtic Gaul.
"Species-to-speciesviolence has occurred ever since systematics first evolved."
While humanity had never been free of war, a long period of relative peace existed between the fall of the Roman Empire and the second millennium.
The methodical collection of shells and fossils is a very systematic approach to natural history.
"Whenever a country embarks on building a nuclear power station, the government receives petitions from environmentalists urging it not to. So far these petitions have been completely ineffective."
The study of anatomy is called anatomy, and that's a fairly systematic study of the body.
While some rulers married for love, many others married for political or financial reasons, and these marriages were organized by officials using a system of courtship, a process that was often as political as the marriage itself.
The totalitarian governments in Germany and Russia both created a system of identifying a citizen's social status by a letter or a number, which became the person's systematic identification.
Unlike many previous rulers of the Ottoman empire, Mehmet organized the regime in a systematic way.
The Thirty Years' War was a 17th-century religious battle fought primarily in central Europe.
He drew up a detailed code of laws or regulations known as the 'Laws of William'. It was the first attempt to impose a uniform system of justice throughout England and it also served to integrate his subjects into a unified nation.
Professor:Weber was right in arguing that most violence has been of a systematic nature, carried out by standing armies or state-sponsored militias.
The early Prussian education system was very systematic: all children had to attend, and schools were structured in a hierarchy, with students advancing as they mastered each level of knowledge.
The ancient Egyptians were able to build their civilization and create their systems of writing, science and government because they had a stable economy.
The theory that the Solar System's planets formed from the same swirling mass of gas and dust has considerable observational and theoretical support.
One of the most obvious differences between these psychotherapies is the degree to which they rely on the use of systematic observation and recording of patients' responses.
A large part of the work of anthroplogists involves developing a system of classifying human cultures in a way that is systematic.
In 1667 Comenius tried to implement a system of education for the youth of Bohemia, which at the time included the town of Fulke.
There are two types of archaeological evidence:
The development of radar was the first major step towards the creation of more systematic methods of tracking objects in the sky.
The most radical and lasting changes implemented by Peter the Great were in the area of social classes, where he implemented a systematized way to move between them.
Although the Nazis themselves didn't invent modern eugenics, they took it to its most extreme level and applied a rigidly bureaucratic system to it in order to implement their policies of systematic racial hygiene or "selective breeding".
The development of agriculture based on farming and herding animals required a settled population, who in turn required a higher number of children, as well as the beginnings of an educational system that would teach them how to farm and tend livestock.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "modern".
The study of anatomy was transformed into a more scientific discipline by the developments in anatomical dissection and the use of a system to consistently identify body parts, which aided study and learning.
The systematic extermination of European Jews by the Nazis during World War II is one of the most deplorable events in human history.
The most well-known and thorough of these experiments was that of the "Little Albert", in which the psychologists tried to condition an infant to fear a white rat by striking a hammer when they presented him with it.
The Nazis also persecuted other minorities, especially the Jews, who were systematically persecuted in an attempt to create a nation free of what they saw as foreign elements.
In the early 1990s, with the introduction of personal computers, there was a major change in how video games were produced, marketed, and distributed.
The Nazis were able to kill so many people with such efficiency because they used systematic methods rather than random acts of violence.
While he was a talented amateur, professional botanists criticized Linne's methods, and for many years Linne's classification system was not widely used.
The Taj Majal was built using classic tools and systematic processes.
Warring parties of the same religion would often grant leniency to their opponents, or even to surrendered foes, and let them go free after a period of time. This is known as a parole system.
Nazis were especially systematic in their efforts to de-humanize individuals.
Although it was abandoned in favour of 'divide and rule', 'systematic oppression' still has its advocates today.
They slowly replaced the systematic cultivation of crops with a complex system of trading and bartering for what they needed.
In the twentieth century the systems became more complex, as did the division of labor in society.
The systematic extermination of Jews was planned, organized and executed by a few Nazi leaders based on their ideological beliefs
Treatments have been developed which are based on the systematic destruction of microbial organisms, in contrast to contagion which rely on the power of suggestion.
Systematic farming is only possible with machinery.
The Roman Catholic Church, which was not a unified institution at the time and was actually a loose coalition of Christian churches that looked to the pope for leadership, went through a radical reformation in order to survive the mounting social, political and religious challenges
A typical government department is not usually set up in a way that takes into account the systematic input of the general public, which is a problem for most governments as they are supposed to be of the people.
The way the word Nazi is used has also changed over time. During the Second World War it was applied to anyone who supported Nazi-ism.
Professor: Before the twentieth century, there were no completely systematic approaches to arranging data.
The development of agriculture, cities, and all the hallmarks of civilization were made possible by the previous development of a series of complex systems and institutions to support them and it is these systems and institutions that we call governments, or more generally, social
The development of steam power which was both efficient and economical caused a systematic restructuring of production techniques.
The students who took the study most seriously and tried to put Descartes' theories into practice, typically by stopping all thoughts and examining them as objects whenever they occurred, experienced mental exhaustion and returned their grades to their former level.


#terminology

The main feature of monetarism is using terminology like money supply and velocity of money.
Some of the concepts the geologists had to develop, such as how to measure time in years instead of traditional terms like "ages" or "aeons", were quite difficult to grasp.
With the rise of scientific technology in the twentieth century, infectious disease came to be classified and identified according to the terminology and concepts used by microbiologists and epidemiologists.
The fact that there is already terminology for the concept indicates that it must exist already.
The traditional hunting tools of the Native Americans were terms misnomers; they were in fact quite advanced.
The vocabulary is also linguistic, with special terms having been extracted from the various fields of social sciences.
The main problem in communication between cultures is the lack of a common terminology.
The big bang is a term for the cataclysm that happened about 15 billion years ago, which is generally considered to have been the beginning of our universe.
The word "Holocene" means "entirely recent" and was chosen by the geologists to name the current geological time interval, which they previously understood to be the last 10,000 years.
The major field divisions are the Lower, Middle and Upper Pleistocene (also known as the Tertiary)
We still don't have a precise definition of the word "intelligence", and until we have one, our terminology is going to be rather sloppy and vague.
Should the religious terminology of purity continue to be used, it could be freed from its pejorative implications.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "intrinsically".
The specialized vocabulary used by different groups of people within a language may substantially affect the thought processes and cranial capacity needed to master those languages.
After being forced to retreat, the army set up a new defensive position. The units that retreated were in danger of being encircled by the enemy, so they had to be pulled back before they became cut off, or isolated.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'official'.
However, it is almost impossible to determine the precise terminology of any era.
Those people accepting the challenge of this new terminology were thus known as "partisans", which comes from the Latin word for "partisan".
The use of the word 'terminate' a pregnancy has led to controversy in areas where pregnancy may result from incest or date-rapes where the victim is not in favor of having the pregnancy terminated.
The issue of terminology is important as it can influence how an issue is perceived. For example, those who argue against the need for radical changes in the education system often argue that schools are, for the most part, doing a good job.
Among other things, he created a standardized terminology for parts of the anatomy and instruments used in surgical procedures.
The technological gap between the Middle Ages and the Renaissance was filled with the rise of vernacular languages based on Latin (French, English, etc.)
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "setback".
"Outbreak" is the word most commonly used to refer to what has come to be known as the "Great Epidemic"
The problem is the absence of standardization of terminology.
However, most Trotskyists use the term "workers' state" to apply to the countries following the Russian Revolution, as the "proletariat", in their terminology, had seized power.
The words "smash words on the keyboard and hope something sticks" come to mind.
The word "altruism"
Some of the Special Forces are poorly trained henceforward their use has been limited to behind-the-lines tasks, such as intelligence gathering or assisting regular forces.
The concept of totalitarianism was greatly influenced by the publication of Hannah Arendt's book "The Origins of Totalitarianism".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'apocalypse'.
Professor: The term "apocalypse" comes from the Greek word meaning "a disclosure of knowledge". Its prefix, "apo," means "to take away"
In the 1940s and early 1950s, "terminology" was a very popular word in psychological circles.
Theorists are often divided into two groups: the "realists", who believe that the world rests on stable foundations, and that there is such a thing as objective truth; and the "relativists", who deny this.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'prefecture'.
Most of their terminology is confusing or just wrong.
Academics have been arguing for decades about the exact definition of "human being", and whether or not a human brain that has been kept alive in a tank can be called a "human being".
The only thing that the two groups agreed on was the terminology: a Nazi, as opposed to a National Socialist.
Clive, the Governor of Bengal, also made a huge personal fortune from these activities, which adds weight to the argument that private fortunes were the main motivation for the initiation of the British conquest of India.
The concepts of 'minimalism' and 'maximalism', which have to do with the origins of the Dead Sea scrolls and how they came to be where they were found, are central to the debate.
"Terminology" is the specialized vocabulary associated with a particular subject or field.
In addition to the new terminology and concepts, students are also required to learn new statistics to analyze and interpret their findings from the mandatory course in genetics.
"You don't understand the terminology?" the teacher says.
The Vandals, by definition a barbarian tribe, were extremely destructive.
I wonder what their attitude would be if they realized the full significance of the words "Let the games begin".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing "succession".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'attainment'.
There are two important types of economics: microeconomics and macroeconomics.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'supplementary'.
A type of a chemical catalyst is a substance that influences the rate of a chemical reaction without itself undergoing any permanent chemical change; in simpler terms, it's something that starts a reaction.
I would come up with my own terminology.
The term Middle Ages describes the period of European history between ancient times and the Renaissance.
The study of the size, shape and markings of fossilized bones to determine the evolutionary terminology of extinct animals is known as 'osteology'.
BUSTRE, or "Board of University Supervisors Teaching Research and Experimentation", was the name of the board at the university which decided on matters such as what would and would not be taught.
Religious terminology in the English language is very complicated because of religious diversity.
The study of languages, particularly the one of a people or region; the words and phrases used in such study
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'qualitative'.
The distinction between path dependency and shifting the regulatory environment are important in order to understand this process.
The additional money that needed to be raised to counteract the effects of the global financial crisis was called a deficit.
But, the shock for me was learning that even religious terminology is linked to the moon.
The word "stereotype" literally means "in set form", and is the description for the predictable uniformity in the actions of large masses of people.
It seems that the term is with us right from the beginning of civilization, whatever exactly that is.
These changes have led to a situation where there is little terminology for the new forms of life, although scientists are struggling to overcome this problem.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'conclusion'.
Professor: This would be called a "fractional termination of pregnancy" which is the medical terminology for an abortion
The term 'reproductive endocrinologist' is used to refer to an obstetrician who has special training in infertility and other problems involving a woman's reproductive system.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'subscription'.
The most important terminology of this topic is the word "species".
In the eighteenth century, those who believed that a constitution was necessary to ensure good government were described as 'Tories' by those who did not.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'invasion'.
The game ends. Thank you for playing!
The socialist movement, unlike other political terminologies, has no single name for itself.
A conflict in which the armour-clad knights of the Middle Ages battle one another with swords, axes and lances would have been referred to by nineteenth-century observers as an ‘armoured cavalry engagement', while a battle in which
Exposure to highly toxic substances is called intoxication and the effect on the body of being poisoned.
He explains the technical terms of his work.
It wasn't until the middle of the eighteenth century that stringent rules about what terminology could be used with reference to the scientifically designated parts of the body were laid down.
The second half of the course deals with the problems of post-modernism in history.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word 'erect'.
The law contains very little terminology that is unknown to the average person.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "interaction".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'imminent'.
There are many different terminology used to refer to different types of change, including: gene flow, mutant, natural selection, genetic drift, and inbreeding.
The words of languages are always changing, and newspapers have to introduce new words for new technology all the time; however, the basic concepts always have a standard terminology.
The word genocide was coined in the 20th-century by a Polish lawyer named Raphael Lemkin.
He doesn't use the terms too often, but when he does, they are almost always important.
Her new-found interest in social issues made her learn the specialized terminology of these issues.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'abiding'.
In the old Roman times, military terminolog
Several of the great legal systems in history have included some form of a " Bill of Rights" or charter of rights – for example, the English Magna Carta and the U.S.
The idea that species develop over time, called "evolution" in layman's terminology and or "development" in scientific terminology, has come under fire in recent years by Creationists who claim it is "just a theory"
It took longer in this period for the Church to standardize Christian religious terminology.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "invasion".
The Carpet-Baggers were unscrupulous businessmen, southern unionists who moved north after the war in order to loot and control Reconstruction.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'terminology'.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing the word "determine".
He was an expert on the terminology of the Middle Ages and his knowledge of the subject resulted in his publishing several books that are still considered authoritative references.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'tension'.
The word 'millenarianism' has its origins in the Latin words for 'thousand' and 'year'.
The word "barbarian" comes from the Greek words barbar, "barbarian speech", and arkhein, "to invent or handle".
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'terminology'.
The use of nuclear weapons (especially the so-called neutron bombs) has given rise to new terminology.
You ask the professor for a sentence containing 'terminology'.
