The basement was dark and damp . . .

The basement was dark and damp . The floor was wet. A man sat by himself there. He had a black hoodie over his head, and he wore no shoes. His face was covered in dirt and grime.

The basement was dark and damp . I sat by the window and watched the moonlight dance on the grass. The sun shone brightly, but there was no breeze. I felt cold and wet inside.

The basement was dark and damp . . . but not really. It smelled like old books. I sat by the fire and watched the flames burn. A man stood outside the door to his house, watching us both. He wore a black suit and a bowler hat.

The basement was dark and damp . . . like a tomb. I had no idea what could be there. A coffin? A grave? An empty room?

The cellar is dark and damp. A woman's voice says, "I'm sorry." She sits by a fire. Her hair is black. She has no eyes for you to see her face.

The cellar is dark and damp. A candle illuminates the floor. I saw a man sitting in the corner of the room. He wore a black suit and tie, but his face was dirty.

The cellar is dark and damp. A man sits on the floor, holding his head. He has a lantern in his hand. His eyes are red and swollen from crying.

The cellar is dark and damp. I have never seen such darkness before. My eyes are tired from staring at the walls for hours. The shadows of the cellar make me feel cold.

The cellar is dark and damp. A man sits there, staring at his feet. He has a small lantern in his hand. His face is dirty and scruffy. He looks like he's been here awhile.

The cellar is dark and damp. A man lies dead on the floor. He has no eyes, or ears, or nose. His mouth hangs open and his tongue sticks out from between his teeth. He looks like he's about to scream.

The cellar is dark and damp. A candle burns inside. I am afraid to go in there. I don't want to be scared again.

The cellar is dark and damp. I can hear the rain. My eyes are heavy. I am thirsty.

The cellar is dark and damp. A man sits by himself in the darkness. He looks like he's about to cry. His eyes are red and puffy from crying.

The cellar is dark and damp. A man sits on the floor. He has a candle in his hand. His face is pale, and he looks tired.

The cellar is dark and damp. The door is locked. I am afraid to open it. If anyone opened the door, they would see me sitting there, in my nightgown. My face looks pale and ghostly.

The cellar is dark and damp. I cannot see anything. My heart beats fast. I feel cold. I am afraid to move.

The cellar is dark and damp. I can hear the sound of rain falling. The door is open. A man sits by himself there. He has a lantern, and he looks tired.

The cellar is dark and damp. I don't know what's inside. I just want to sleep.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. I had never felt this way before. The wind blew, and the snowflakes fell from the sky. A man stood by a tree. He was dressed in black, like me.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. The wind blew, and the snowflakes fell from the sky.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. I stood there, waiting for something to happen. A bird flew by. I watched it fly away from me.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. The wind blew. I had no place to go. I wanted to cry out, but didn't know how. My eyes were wet with tears as they stared up at the sky.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. My eyes were closed. I could hear the wind blowing.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. My body ached from all the running I had done today. I wanted to sleep, but I couldn't stop myself.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. My eyes burned from the sun. I could hear the wind howl. The rain fell like a waterfall. I saw a man and woman kiss each other passionately. They smiled at me as they walked away together.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. The wind blew across my face. My fingers felt like they were frozen.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. I saw a light at the end of the tunnel. A bright light shone from behind the trees. I could see a man sitting by his fire, reading a book. He had a beard and wore clothes that were too big for him.

I shivered as the damp cold air nipped at my skin. The wind blew through the trees. I stared up at the sky. A light rain fell.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. The earth was smooth and warm under my feet. A small stream flowed beside the cave mouth.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. I found it very interesting. I sat by the creek and watched the water run over the rocks.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. A large rock sat in the middle of the room. The moonlight illuminated the cave, but only for a moment.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. I could smell the scent of grass and flowers. I sat beside the fire, watching the flames dance.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. I sat by the fire. My hands touched the warm ashes. The flames danced around me.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. The cave was dark and cold. I sat on the ground and stared up at the ceiling. My eyes hurt when they opened.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. A woman's voice said, "It is not safe here." She was dressed in a green dress that fell just below her knees. Her hair was black and she had red eyes.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. A black rat scurried along the ground. It was small, but it had big teeth.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. I sat by the fire and watched the flames. They flickered red hot.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. I sat on the ground and watched the moonlight dance across the grass.

The soft dirt in the floor of the cave was damp and must be ankle deep. I climbed up the side of the cave. I saw a man in a robe standing by a fire. He smiled at me.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I could smell the earthworms. They were all around me. I saw them crawl along the ground.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I walked along it. I saw a man sitting by his campfire. He had a bowl of stew, and he was eating it.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I saw a man's face peering out from behind the wall. He had long hair and wore a green tunic. His eyes were red and puffy.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I walked along it. The air was cool and crisp. I saw a man standing by a small fire, watching the flames. He wore a dark suit, his hair combed back in a bun.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I could hear the sounds of the animals. They were small, but they sounded happy. A mouse squeaked by me.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I could smell the scent of flowers. They were small, delicate flowers that grew along the ground.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I walked along it. It led deeper into the earth. A few feet away from me, there was a stone wall. I could see nothing but darkness beyond that wall.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I could hear the sounds of children playing in the tunnels. They had been running around, but now they stopped.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I saw a man and woman sitting together. They had a baby in their arms. The baby's eyes were blue, like mine. The man told the woman he loved her, but she said no more than that.

The tunnel was damp and smelled of wet soil. I saw a dark figure standing by the wall. He wore black pants and a white shirt. His hair was short, like mine.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. I knew there was a river that flowed through this land. The water was clear and cold. It smelled like flowers. A rainbow sparkled above the waters.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. I had never been outside before. I walked along the sidewalk. A man sat in a chair by the side of the road. He wore a hat and coat, but his hair was disheveled and he smelled bad.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. I walked along the road. My feet felt cool and dry. I saw a man standing by his car. He had no name tag or license plate. His face was pale and wrinkled, like that of a corpse's.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. I walked along the edge of the river. I saw a man standing there. He had no face, just hair and skin like leather. His eyes glowed red from within, but he did not seem angry or sad.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. A dark cloud hung over the sky. The sun shone brightly. I watched the light shine upon the trees and grass.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. A dog barked. I walked up to the house. It smelled like rain and dirt. The door opened, and there stood a man with his hands in his pockets. He wore a dark suit that covered him from head to toe.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. A light breeze blew. I felt like I was floating. My eyes closed, and I fell asleep.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. I walked along the edge of the pond. The water was blue, like the sky. I watched as a man sat by his boat, fishing for small fish. He caught one, and ate it quickly.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. I wanted to go home. I felt safe there. My eyes were closed, and my head rested against the tree. A black bird flew by. It seemed to be looking for something, but didn't seem interested in anything else.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. I saw a hole in the earth. A man had dug it out. He said he needed to dig something else out, but he didn't know what.

I could feel the damp ground under my feet. I had fallen down a hole. I crawled up the hill, and out of the woods.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. The sun shone brightly. I watched it shine upon the ground. I walked along the road. A deer came out of a bush and stared at me.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. I stood by the window and watched the rain. The sky was blue, but there was no sun. I saw a man walking along the road. He wore a suit, but his hair was gray and he had a mustache.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. My eyes hurt when they focused on the ground. I stood up and walked along the dirt path. I saw a small house by the side of the road. A man sat inside, reading a book.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. The sun shone brightly. I saw the sky as it grew dark. A black cloud covered the sky.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. I sat by the river. A man walked past me. He had a small hat on his head and a thick beard. His eyes were black, but they seemed sad when he stared at me.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. A man stood on top of a hill. He had a lantern in his hand. His face was pale and wrinkled. The sun shone brightly upon him, but he did not seem to notice it.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. I watched the raindrops dance across the ground. They fell so softly that they didn't hurt my eyes.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. The trees were tall and lush. They swayed gently in the wind. I saw a black dog running away from me. It stopped by a tree, and then turned around. It sniffed at me, and licked its lips.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. I saw a snake. Its body was black and its head was red. It had long, thin legs that went up to the sky. They were very slender, but they were strong enough for it to climb over obstacles.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. I saw a small stream that flowed through the grass. It was very quiet there.

The earth was damp from the intermittent rains. A man walked along the road. He wore a green raincoat. His hair was wet and he had a moustache.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. I could smell the scent of moss. The cave was dark and cold. A small fire burned there.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. A black, slimy thing crawled across them. The cave was dark and cold. I could hear the creature below me, but couldn't see it.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. They smelled like moss and dirt. A large lizard crawled along the wall. It had three eyes, two on each side of its head. Its body was covered with scales that glistened in the moonlight.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. I stood by the cave mouth. The wind blew through the trees. I saw a flash of light from above. It was a star that fell from heaven.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. They were covered with mosses and lichens. A small stream flowed from one side of the cave to another. I stood under the waterfall, looking up at the ceiling.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. They smelled like moss and dirt. I stood there for hours, listening to the sound of water running down the cave walls.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. I sat by the fire. The flames licked at my hand. They burned my fingers.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. They were covered with moss. I could hear the wind blowing in the trees.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. They were covered with mosses and lichens. I saw a small stream that flowed from one side of the cave to another. It was cold, but there was no wind.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. They were covered with mosses and lichens. I watched them move. The lichen grew along the wall, and then spread out to cover more ground.

The cave walls were damp and wet to the touch. They smelled like moss and dirt. A black cat licked its lips, and walked along the wall.

The basement was dark and damp. A man sat on the floor. He had a book open in his hands. His eyes were closed, but he stared at something in the darkness. I could see him, but I couldn't make out what he was looking at.

The basement was dark and damp. A large man sat in the corner. He wore a black suit and tie. His face was pale, like snow. He held a cigar in his hand.

The basement was dark and damp. I could hear the noise of rain. The window was open, but there was no light inside.

The basement was dark and damp. The walls were covered with cobwebs. I sat by the window and watched the rain pour down. The sky was gray and rainy.

The basement was dark and damp. I could hear the sound of rain. The door was wide open. A man sat on the floor with his legs spread. He had a bat in one hand and a cigarette in another.

The basement was dark and damp. I could hear the sound of rain. I wanted to go back upstairs and play with the kittens.

The basement was dark and damp. I could hear the creaking of wood. I couldn't see anything, but then, that wasn't what this place was for.

The basement was dark and damp. A man sat on the floor, holding his head. He had no eyes or nose. His skin was pale and dry. He held a knife in one hand, and a candle in the other.

The basement was dark and damp. A door stood there. The light from the moon shone through the crack. I saw a man standing in front of me. He wore a black suit and tie, and had brown hair that fell past his shoulders.

The basement was dark and damp. I could hear the sound of rain. I sat on the floor and watched it pour. The sky was blue, but there was no sun. It seemed like everything had changed since we lived here before.

The basement was dark and damp. I could hear the sound of raindrops on glass. I saw a light shining in the corner of the room. It was a candle.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. I saw a dark shape under the wet earth. It had black fur and it smelled bad. I wanted to get away from that thing, but there was nowhere else for me to go.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. A black dog barked at something behind me. I turned around to see what it was barking about.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. I stood there and watched. A man sat by himself on a bench. He had a small dog by his side. They both licked their lips and looked up at him with big eyes.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. I saw a man sitting on the grass. He had dark hair, and he wore a black suit. His eyes were red from crying.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. I had no idea what was happening. The earth seemed to be giving way. My eyes closed and I fell asleep.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. I stood there, watching as the earth gave way beneath my feet. A black hole opened up in the middle of the earth. The light from inside the hole blinded me for a moment. Then, everything went dark again.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. I saw a small tree that had been felled by lightning. The leaves were brown and red, like blood. They hung from the branches like vines.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. A hole opened up in the earth. I stepped inside. The air smelled like the soil.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. I couldn't see anything. My eyes were too big for this world.

The ground was damp everywhere and I could feel the dirt slowly give way. I walked along the road. A man sat by a fire. He was tall and thin. His hair was black, but his face had no expression except for a small smile.

It was a cool, damp cave. A man sat by himself in the middle of the cave. He had a black hat on his head and a hooded robe over his body. His eyes were red like fire.

It was a cool, damp cave. A man sat by himself. He held a torch to illuminate his face. His eyes were red and puffy from crying. He stared at the ground.

It was a cool, damp cave. A man sat by himself in the dark. He had a candle, and he lit it. His eyes were closed, but his face was still illuminated by the light.

It was a cool, damp cave. A small stream flowed from the cave's entrance. I saw a man in a red robe standing by the stream. He held his hands up to protect himself from the rain.

It was a cool, damp cave. A small fire burned there. I saw a man's face peering out from behind the flames. He had dark hair and wore a cloak that was red around the collar. His eyes were blue and his nose was crooked like mine.

It was a cool, damp cave. A man sat in the middle of the cave. He had a black beard and wore a cloak over his shoulders. His eyes were red, like fireflies.

It was a cool, damp cave. A man sat on a rock, holding his head. He had a beard that was black as coal. His eyes were red like blood.

It was a cool, damp cave. A man sat by himself. He had a book open to one of his favorite books. His eyes were closed, but he could see everything around him.

It was a cool, damp cave. I sat by the fire. A small, white rabbit hopped around. It had big eyes, and a little nose. It was very cute.

It was a cool, damp cave. I saw a man sitting by himself in the corner. He had a large book open to one page. A candle burned near him. His eyes were closed, but he seemed tired.

It was a cool, damp cave. I saw a man sitting by the fire. He had a face like a peach pit. His hair was brown and his eyes were blue. I sat next to him and we talked about nothing for hours.

The cave air was damp and cool. The light was soft and warm. I could smell the earthy scent of the grasses. My eyes felt heavy from reading, but I still read.

The cave air was damp and cool. I sat by the fire. My grandmother told me stories about her days growing up in the forest. She spoke softly, but gently. Her voice was soothing to my ears.

The cave air was damp and cool. A few stars twinkled overhead. I watched them for hours. They seemed so big, yet so small at the same time. I wanted to go home.

The cave air was damp and cool. I saw a light blue sky. A black bird flew over the mountain.

The cave air was damp and cool. I sat by the fire. My grandfather told me stories about his days as a miner. He always wore a hat and gloves when he worked. Sometimes, he would go deep underground to mine for gold.

The cave air was damp and cool. I sat by the fire. My mother told me stories about her life before she died. She said that one day, when she was young, there was a big storm came. All the trees fell down.

The cave air was damp and cool. I watched the moonlight dance across the walls. A star twinkled brightly.

The cave air was damp and cool. I stood by the fire. My eyes closed, and I listened to the sound of the wind blowing through the trees.

The cave air was damp and cool. I lay under the stars. The moon shone bright, but not too brightly. It was just right for watching the stars.

The cave air was damp and cool. I sat by the fire. A woman's voice whispered to me from the flames. She told me that if I listened carefully, I could hear her whisper to me again.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I crawled inside. I saw a man sitting by a fire. He had a bucket of water over his head. His face was dirty and he wore rags.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I saw a rat scurry around in the darkness. It was small, but its eyes glowed red. Its mouth opened wide, and it let out a loud howl.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I could smell the dead bodies that lay here. They had been there for days, and they still smelled like them.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I could smell the rotten meat from far away. The door was wide open. A man stood there, holding a butcher knife. He looked like he had been crying for days.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I had never seen anything like it before. It was dark, but I could see light coming from the other side.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I could smell the dead bodies that lay inside. They had been there for days. I walked along the tunnel, looking out at all those bodies.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I saw a man's face peering out from the darkness. He was pale and gaunt. His eyes were red and puffy. They stared at me, but he did not speak.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I had never seen anything like it before. There was a man who lived there. He was a little balding, and wore dirty clothes. His hair was always wet from his shower head.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I saw a man's face peering out from behind a door. He had long hair, and wore a black suit.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I stood in the darkness. A light shone from somewhere far away. It was bright enough for me to see, but not too bright.

The tunnel was damp and smelled horrible. I walked along it. It led to a dark place. I could not see anything in this darkness, but I knew that there was something out there.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. My hands were covered in mud. They felt like they had been dipped in saltwater. The sky was dark and cloudy.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. The grass was wet. I saw a dark shape in the distance. It looked like a man, but he had no face. He wore black clothing and stood there looking at us.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. My fingers felt like they were covered in ice. The air smelled bitter. I had never seen anything so black before. I stared at the sky, wondering what was there to see beyond this dark sky.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. My eyes hurt from looking at the sky. I wanted to sleep.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. My hands felt like they had ice on them. The sun shone brightly. A dog barked. I sat by the fire and watched it burn.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. My fingers felt like they were covered in ice. The ground was wet, too. I could see the sky through the trees. It seemed so far away from here.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. I saw a man sitting by a fire. He had his back to me. His face was pale and wrinkled. He stared at the flames.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. I could not move. My eyes closed, and I fell asleep.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. I sat by the fire. A man came out from under the house. He had a large hat on his head, and he wore a jacket over his shirt. His hands were covered in mud, and they were dirty.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. The air smelled like rain. I sat by the fire and watched the flames burn.

Everything was damp and cold to the touch. I saw a black rat crawl along the floor. Its eyes were red and bloodshot. It crawled along the ground until it found its way to my hand.

The cave was damp and shadowy. A dark figure sat by the fire. He wore a cloak and hooded robe. His face was hidden from view, but I could see his eyes were red like blood.

The cave was damp and shadowy. I saw a man sitting by himself. He had a large beard and wore leather armor. His eyes were red and puffy. I could smell his stink all over the cave.

The cave was damp and shadowy. I saw a red glow from inside. A man sat in the cave, holding a candle. He smiled at me, and spoke softly to me.

The cave was damp and shadowy. The light from the moon shone through the trees. A man sat by himself in a corner of the cave. He had a small fire burning, but he didn't look up when I walked past him.

The cave was damp and shadowy. I saw the moonlight shine through the cracks. A man sat by himself there. He had a pipe and a book.

The cave was damp and shadowy. I saw a light coming from below. It shone bright and white. I could not see what was inside the cave, but I knew that it had something to do with the light shining out of the entrance.

The cave was damp and shadowy. The walls were covered with moss. A small candle burned inside the cave. I sat by the fire and watched the flame dance.

The cave was damp and shadowy. I stood by the entrance. A man came out of the cave, holding a lantern. He smiled at me.

The cave was damp and shadowy. A candle illuminated the darkness. I saw a man sitting by himself in the shadows. He had long hair and wore a black robe. His eyes were closed, but he seemed to be listening intently to his own thoughts.

The cave was damp and shadowy. A light shone from above. I saw the moonlight. The cave was dark and cold. I wanted to go inside, but I couldn't find my way out again.

The cave was damp and shadowy. A light shone from inside. The shadows danced around me. I saw a man standing there, his face hidden by a hooded cloak. He held a bow and arrow in one hand and a quiver full of arrows in the other.

The air was damp inside the cave. I could smell the grass. The grass smelled like home. My mother had told me stories about the grass when I was little.

The air was damp inside the cave. A man sat by a fire. He wore a blue coat and black pants. His face was pale as he stared at his hands. I saw him from behind the cave wall.

The air was damp inside the cave. I could smell the scent of flowers. They bloomed bright and early in springtime. I watched them for hours, until they began to wilt and die.

The air was damp inside the cave. I saw a man sitting by a fire. He had a hat on his head and he wore clothes that were dirty. He looked like he was from the countryside.

The air was damp inside the cave. I sat on the ground and watched the raindrops hit the rocks. They fell like tiny pearls. I thought about how they had been falling for years before I came here.

The air was damp inside the cave. I could smell the scent of flowers. They smelled sweet and fresh. A little girl had been lost there once. She was very pretty, but her hair was always wet from falling in the rain.

The air was damp inside the cave. The cave was dark. I could hear the wind blowing. My eyes were tired, but they still opened wide when I saw something bright and white above me.

The air was damp inside the cave. The cave was dark. I could hear the wind blowing. My eyes were tired, but they still opened wide when I saw something bright and white above me.

The air was damp inside the cave. It smelled like rain. I sat on the ground, and watched the sky. The moon was bright as it shone down upon me. I could see its light through the trees.

As I felt my way along the tunnel, the walls became more and more damp. My eyes grew heavy. I saw a light. A glow that seemed to come from everywhere, like a fire burning inside me.

As I felt my way along the tunnel, the walls became more and more damp. My eyes grew heavy. I saw a light. A glow that seemed to come from everywhere, like a fire burning inside me.

As I felt my way along the tunnel, the walls became more and more damp. My eyes began to burn. I could not see anything but darkness. The air grew colder and colder.

As I felt my way along the tunnel, the walls became more and more damp. I could not see anything, but there was something warm on the other side. I had to get out of here!

As I felt my way along the tunnel, the walls became more and more damp. I could not see anything, but there was something warm on the other side. I had to get out of here!

As I felt my way along the tunnel, the walls became more and more damp. A dark shape lurked behind them. I could hear its breathing. I thought about how it smelled like rain and dirt.

As I felt my way along the tunnel, the walls became more and more damp. The ground grew wetter and wetter. I could not see anything, but I knew that there must be something else. Something dark and cold.

As I felt my way along the tunnel, the walls became more and more damp. I could not see much, but I knew that there must be a door somewhere ahead.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. I see the stars twinkle above the waters. They are so bright. I wonder if they will ever end.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. A man walks along the bank. He is wearing a green dress shirt and black pants. His face is pale, like mine.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. A bird flies overhead. It is so quiet. I watch the sun set over the hills. I am thirsty for rain, but there are no clouds here in this place.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. The water is cold. I feel like I am drowning. A man sits on the bank, holding his hand out for help. He says he has been lost in this forest for days.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. I watch the water. It is very dark here. The moon shines bright, but there are no stars. I wonder if they will come tonight.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. A man is sitting there. He has his back to me. His hair is wet from the rain. I lean over the bank and look at him.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. I look at the water. It is cold and wet. The water looks like it has been there for years.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. I am covered in mud. The sun is shining brightly. I look up at the sky. It looks like a blueberry field, but without any of the berries.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. A man walks along the bank. He is tall and thin. His hair is dark brown, like mine. He wears a black suit that looks expensive.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. I look up at the sky. The sun is shining brightly. A bird flies past, but it doesn't seem like it's interested in me.

The damp air clings to me as I sit by the river. I am wet and cold. The sun is shining, but the sky is dark. A man walks along the bank of the river. He wears a hat that covers his face completely. His hair looks like it has been dried over a fire.

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. I knew that there must be something behind me. I had to find out what it was.

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. I was so tired. I had to get home!

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. I had to get out of here.

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. I could smell the scent of rain on the ground. It smelled like home.

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. The darkness grew thick. I felt like I was losing myself in it. My heart beat fast and hard. I began to hear voices behind me. They whispered words in my ear, but they didn't seem real.

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. I had to get out of here. I couldn't stay here forever.

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. I felt the ground getting colder. My feet began to hurt. I couldn't see anything but darkness ahead of me.

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. I had no idea what lay ahead of me.

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. I saw a light ahead. I had to get out of here!

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. A black hole opened up in the ground. I crawled through it.

I could feel the area around me growing damp as I inched down the tunnel. I could hear the sound of raindrops hitting the ground. A voice came from above me. "Don't you dare move." It said.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. The air smelled like moldy hay. I could smell the dust that had settled there for years. My eyes stung from the light shining in them.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. The floor was sticky. A black cat stood by the wall. Its eyes were big and round like a little boy's. It had short legs, but its body was long and muscular.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. I could smell the stale air. My stomach growled. I wanted to go back home.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. They smelled like moldy bread. I had no idea what to do next.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. They smelled like mold. The floor was dirty and cracked. The door was locked from the inside.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. I could smell the stink of blood and rot. My feet hurt from stepping on wet moss. I thought about how long it had been since I'd eaten anything.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. They smelled like mold. I sat on the floor and stared at them. A black cat jumped onto my shoulder. He licked his lips and looked up at me with big eyes.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. The floor was wet. I saw a rat scurry along the wall. It looked like it had been bitten by something sharp or venomous.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. The door stood open. A man sat in the middle of the room. He wore a black suit, and his hair was combed back. His eyes were wide and bloodshot from staring at nothing for hours.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. I wanted to go out and play. But I couldn't leave my room without permission from grandma. She always said that if you stayed here for too long, you'd get sick.

The corridor walls were damp and uninviting. They were covered with moss. I could smell the scent of the moss in the air.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. A light breeze blew through the trees. I sat by the window and watched the stars. They were bright and beautiful.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. The stone walls were smooth, but they seemed to be made of something else. They had no top or bottom. I stood on the stairs and watched the shadows dance across them.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. A man sat on the throne. He wore a crown of gold. His hair was white and silky like silk.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. The door was wide open. A black shadow stood there. It was a ghost.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. A man sat on the throne. He wore a crown. His hair was silver, his eyes were blue, and he had wings that flapped gently.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. A man sat on one of them. He wore a black suit and white shirt. His hair was short, but his eyes were big and bright.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. A black dog barked. Its eyes were red and its mouth was wide open. It stared at me, then turned away from me.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. A man sat on the stone steps. He wore a black cloak, and his face was pale as bone. His eyes stared out over the sea.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. A man sat by himself in his study. He had a book open to one page. His eyes were closed, but he could see me.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. A man sat there, his head resting on a staff. He wore a black robe that covered him from neck to toe. His eyes were closed. He had long hair and was very pale.

The castle's damp stones glistened in the moonlight. A man sat in the dark tower. He had a sword by his side. I saw him for only a moment, but he seemed very dangerous.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. A snake slithered along the ground. It had a pale green body, and a dark stripe across its back.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I saw a little girl who wore a green dress. She had curly brown hair that fell past her shoulders. Her eyes were small and round like pearls. Her face was pale and smooth.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. A snake slithered along the ground. I stared at it for a moment. It seemed so small, but then again, snakes are tiny.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I wanted to cry out, but I couldn't. My mother came home from work. She sat me on her lap and told me stories about the world. She had a smile on her face all day long.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I sat on the ground and watched the stars. They seemed so bright, like diamonds. I saw a small star that glowed red. It was beautiful.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. My feet felt like they were glued to the earth. I could hear the rain falling.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I sat on the grass and watched the stars. They twinkled like diamonds.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I felt like I was floating. My eyes watered when I saw the moon. It seemed so big, and bright.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I stood there, looking up at the sky. Clouds floated by. They were green and white. A few stars twinkled above them.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I felt like I could sleep forever.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I sat by the river and watched the water. The sun shone brightly upon it.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I could hear the wind blowing. I had no idea what that meant, but it felt good.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I walked along the wall, and found myself in a small room. A man sat there. He wore a red robe that had many buttons hanging open. His eyes were wide and his mouth hung open as he stared at me.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. The light from the moon illuminated the cave. A man sat there, holding a small candle. He wore a robe that covered his entire body except for his hands and feet. His face was pale, but he smiled when he saw me enter.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I found myself standing before a large cavern. A red glow surrounded the entrance.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I had never been inside before. I sat down on the floor and watched the light that illuminated the walls. The ceiling was high enough for me to see over, but low enough that it wasn't too bright.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I felt the cold air. A light breeze blew through the cave. I could smell the scent of mosses and lichens.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I walked along the wall. I saw a small hole that led inside. It was dark, but there was light from above. A starlight shone upon the cave floor.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I saw a small hole that led inside. I walked in, and found myself in a dark room. A lamp sat next to the wall. There was no light source in the room.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. The walls were covered with mossy vines. They seemed to move about, and they swayed in the breeze.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I stood before a huge cavern. A large stone wall surrounded the entrance. I saw the darkness inside the cave.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I saw a small hole in the ground. I stepped inside. My foot sank into the sand, but I kept walking forward. The air smelled sweet and cool on my face.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I stood by the waterfall. I watched as the water fell onto the rocks below. A strange creature sat upon one of them. He had no eyes, but he wore a black hooded cloak that covered his entire body except for his head.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. A man sat by a fire. He had long hair, and wore a hat. His eyes were red as blood.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. The cave was dark and cold. I could hear the wind howling outside.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. A man sat by a fire. He wore a fur hat, and had a beard. His eyes were closed, but he smiled when he saw me.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. A light breeze blew across the cave. I saw a black shadow crawl along the wall. It was a spider!

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. The light that shone in from above was dim. A man sat by himself on the floor. He had a black hooded cloak over his head. His eyes were closed, but he stared at something beyond the darkness.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I stood by the cave mouth. A black shadow lurked inside. It's eyes were red and bloodshot. Its body was twisted and deformed.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I stood by the waterfall, looking at the dark water. The water seemed to be red, like blood.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I saw a man sitting by the fire. He wore a robe that was black and red. His eyes were wide open as he stared at the flames.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I could see a man in a red robe standing by the entrance. He wore no shoes, but he had white socks on his feet.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I could see the stars. They were bright and clear. My eyes hurt, but they didn't hurt too much anymore.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat on the floor, holding his head. He had red hair and wore a black suit. His eyes were closed, but he saw you. You could see him too, if you wanted to look closely enough.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat on a chair. He wore a blue suit and had his hands in his pockets. He was reading a book, but he didn't look up from the page.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat on the floor, staring at his hands. He had a strange scar across his cheekbone. His eyes were closed, but he stared at something far away from him.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A door stood there. I walked past it. Inside was a small bathroom, with a sink and toilet. A lamp sat near the wall, illuminating the floor.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat on a chair. He wore a black suit. His eyes were closed, but he could see you.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat on a chair. He had long hair and wore a black suit. His eyes were closed, but he watched you with interest.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat by a fire. He had a big beard, and wore clothes that were too small for him. His eyes were wide open, but he didn't seem angry or scared. He just stared at the flames.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat in a chair. He had no eyes. His mouth opened and closed. He smiled at me, but his smile was sadder than any I'd ever seen before.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat by a window. He wore a white shirt and pants. His face was pale and his eyes were black. He stared out at the darkness, as if he could see something there that he couldn't see here.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat by a fire. He had a small leather bag over his shoulder. His eyes were closed, but he didn't look tired. He was holding something in his hand that wasn't there before.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. A man sat by a window. He wore a black suit and tie. His face was pale, like death itself. He stared out at the darkness.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. A man sat by a fire. He had a large, heavy pack on his back. His face was wrinkled from crying. He held two small children close to him.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. I could smell the wet grass underfoot. My feet hurt from walking across the ground.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. I could hear the sound of waves crashing against them. I saw a man standing by the wall. He had long hair that hung down his back.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. A man walked along them. He wore a white shirt, blue jeans, and sandals. His hair was short and messy.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. The darkness seemed endless. A man stood before me. He had dark hair, and wore a black suit. His eyes were red and puffy, but he smiled at me when he saw me looking at him.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. The tunnel led from the beach to the river. I could see a small boat bobbing along in the water.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. I could hear the sound of rain falling outside.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. They led to another world. A place that was far away from here.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. A little girl lived there. She had big eyes, but her hair was brown. Her mother told her stories and played with her.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. I walked along them. They led to a cave. In the cave sat a man who wore a hat and had no eyes or ears. He smiled at me, but did not speak to me.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. I saw a man standing by a small stream. He held his hand out for me to go over to him. I did so. As we walked together, he told me about himself.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. I was thirsty. I drank from the fountain. The water tasted sweet.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. I smelled the rain. I saw the clouds. They were so big that they covered everything. The sky was blue, but there was no sun here. It seemed like we were floating over the ocean, or over a forest of trees.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. My eyes burned. I had no idea what was going on. I wanted to go home.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. I had been walking for hours. A man came out from behind a bush. He was tall and thin, like a ghost. His face was pale, his eyes red and swollen, he wore rags, and he smelled of sweat.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. I smelled the rain. It fell from the sky like a waterfall.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. I ran my hand across my face. My nose twitched. I sniffed the air. It smelled like rain and wet leaves.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. My body ached from all the running I had done today. I felt cold. A light rain fell. It was very nice to run through the rain after a day of hard work.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. I stood by the window. The sun shone bright. A light breeze blew through the trees. My mother told me stories, and I listened to her talk about things that happened in the past.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. I had no hair. My face was smooth and pale. I watched the sun set over the hills.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. It smelled like rain. I stood up and walked out onto the porch. A man sat by the window watching me. He had a hat pulled low over his eyes.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. My eyes burned from the sun. I wanted to go home. I wanted to lie down and sleep.

The air was damp and heavy. The sun shone brightly. I smelled flowers and grasses. I watched the sky, wondering what would happen tomorrow.

The air was damp and heavy. I walked along the wall. The light was dim. The trees were tall and dark. I could hear the wind blowing in the trees.

The air was damp and heavy. The rain fell. It rained hard. I sat on the ground and watched the rain.

The air was damp and heavy. The sun shone brightly. I saw the moon. She had a face like a flower, but her eyes were red and cold. Her hair was black and white.

The air was damp and heavy. My nose was bleeding. I sniffed the air. It smelled like rain and dirt. I wanted to go home, but I couldn't move from here.

The air was damp and heavy. My hair smelled like rain. I sat by the window and watched the sky. The clouds were dark and mysterious. They seemed to move around each other, but never came together again.

The air was damp and heavy. I stared at the sky. The stars twinkled like diamonds. I saw a star that shone brighter than all others.

The air was damp and heavy. My feet hurt. I wanted to run, but I couldn't go anywhere. The sky was dark and full of stars. They seemed so big and bright in the darkness.

The air was damp and heavy. I sat by the window and watched the rain. It fell like a waterfall.

The air was damp and heavy. I sat by the fire. A man came out from behind a bush. He held a small wooden stick in his hand. His face was wrinkled and dirty.

The air was damp and heavy. My breath smelled like rain. I could smell the flowers that grew in the garden. They were very pretty.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They had been covered by moss. A tree grew there. I saw a light in the sky that shone like gold.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They had been painted red. My eyes hurt when they looked at them.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They were smooth and flat. The stones had been polished.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They were smooth and hard. I saw the moonlight through them. The shadows danced along the wall like a girl's dress.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. The moonlight shined upon them. They seemed to glow.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They had been painted red years ago by a painter named Mr. Smith. He lived nearby, but he never came out after hours. His wife died, and his son took over the business.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They had been painted red and white. My eyes burned from looking at them for too long. I sat by the window and watched the world go by.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They had been painted white years ago. The sun shone brightly on them. I saw the sky, and watched the clouds move across it.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They had been painted with red roses. The flowers grew tall and straight, like spears pointing upward. I stared at them for hours.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They were cold to the touch. The sun shone brightly, but I could not see it. The moon lit up the sky.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. They were covered with moss and lichen. The stones had been polished by the rain. I walked along them, looking at their smoothness.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It snuggled up against me. I could hear its purr.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It sat there for a moment, then jumped back up. The kitten was very small. It had tiny legs and arms. The kitten looked like it wanted to play, but didn't know how.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. I watched it for awhile. It was small and black. It jumped up and down on the chair.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. I held its paw. It wiggled its fingers. I let go of it.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It sat there looking at me. It had no fur on its body. I wanted to pet it, but I couldn't reach it.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It stood there, looking up at me. I held out my hand for it to pet. The kitten jumped onto my palm and nuzzled against me.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. She jumped up and down. I petted her head.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It jumped up and down. I watched it for awhile, then I let it go. The kitten fell on the floor.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. I watched it jump. It seemed so small, like a tiny kitten.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It jumped up and down. Its eyes were bright blue. It was so cute!

The damp ground was soft underfoot. My feet felt like they were on fire. I had to stop myself from jumping up and down.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I had never seen grass like this before. I went to the river. It was cold, but I could feel its warmth on my back. The water was clear and cool.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I sat by the river and watched the water. The grass was green, and smelled good. A man came out from behind a tree. He had dark hair, like mine. His eyes were small, but his face was handsome.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I could hear the wind blowing. A little bird flew overhead. Its wings were black and white.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. My feet felt warm. I ran along the path. A deer stood by the side of the road. She was very pretty, but her eyes were sad.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I sat by the stream and watched the water. It flowed gently. I saw a black bear come out of the woods. He was big enough for me to play with him, but he didn't want to be touched.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I saw a small bird perched on the branch. It fluttered its wings. It flew away from me, but not far enough for me to follow it.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I saw a small bird perched on the branch. It fluttered its wings. It flew away from me, but not far enough for me to follow it. I walked along the road. A light breeze blew through the trees. I saw a man walking towards me from behind a tree. He had a lantern in his hand, and he was holding something in his other hand.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I saw a small bird perched on the branch. It fluttered its wings. It flew away from me, but not far enough for me to follow it. It returned to the same branch.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. There were no lights, no torches. I could not see anything, but I felt the passing of rock and stone.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. It was like a cave, but under the earth. The air tasted foul. It was filled with smoke and ash. Suddenly, I saw something spark into life in the darkness. It...

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I could hear the drip,drip of water.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. Its walls were covered with sparkly minerals. It was dark inside.

I could feel the dampness of the cave's interior as I entered. I stood by the cave opening and played my song. The song echoed off the cave walls and into the deep passages beyond my sight.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I had to go through the cave to get to the other side of the woods.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I had to keep wiping the water away so I could see. It was difficult to see through the darkness.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. The water cascaded down like a waterfall. A man was sat there, he was wearing a cloak with a hood over his head.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I could see stalactites and stalagmites all around me.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I could hear the water trickling down as I walked through the cave. I walked through the cave for a long time, as it grew darker and darker until I could scarcely see my hand in front of my face.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I clambered over the boulders and walked deeper into the cave.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I swished my hands through the water that lay in little pools on the cave floor.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I had to lift my feet high to avoid the puddles on the ground. The cave smelt of wet dirt. Water dripped onto my head. It ran down my back.

The cave walls were damp as water dripped down from the ceiling. I could hear the swamp outside. Water squelched underfoot as I walked through the cave.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. The room had a damp carpet and damp wallpaper. Rain pattered on the window. I sat in the little chair.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. Rain pattered softly on the roof. It left a musty smell in the air. Water dripped down the wall by the window. I looked out into the night. On the street, someone walked by with a dog on a leash.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. The quiet hum of the air-conditioner hung in the damp air.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. The room was empty. A window looked out onto the sky. The moon was a sliver of light.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. The room was filled with odd sounds.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. The smell of the room was like a waking dream. I gazed upon the heavy wooden table. It was sticky with nectar and droplets clung to the wood. In the centre of the room was a bathtub.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. The moisture made the walls look green. The girl clutched a small teddy-bear and shuffled into the room. She looked at me, and gave a little wave. I waved back.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. I shone a flashlight around the room. Shadows danced on the wall. The flashlight glinted off a still, black surface of water. Carefully, I stepped into the water. The water was freezing cold.

The dark hallway gave way to a damp room. It was dark, and full of boxes and books. I opened a door. Beyond it was the bathroom. I had to go. I walked toward the bowl. I did my business.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. We ran deeper into the tunnel, away from the coast. I could hear the soldiers marching behind us. Their boots squelched in the muddy ground.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. The tiled tunnel led into darkness.

The tunnel walls were damp and smelled faintly of salt water. Quickly, I scrambled through this tunnel until the sunlight touched my back. At the end of the tunnel, I saw the bright, blue ocean.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. It felt nice.

I could feel the damp air against my skin. It was so fresh, so clean. The trees were tall and the forest was dark. I started walking down the path.

I looked up at the stars. They were tiny points of light in the dark sky.

The air was damp and heavy. It was dark, and the moon was covered by clouds.

The air was damp and heavy. It pressed against my skin, and I was tired.

The air was damp and heavy. The undergrowth crunched underfoot. The leaves were cool and damp. The cicadas hummed, filling the air with a buzz.

The air was damp and heavy. It hung about my neck like a chain.

The air was damp and heavy. Heavy like the weight of water. I felt like I was breathing through water.

The stone walls were damp and cool to the touch. The cave was dark, and the air smelt dank.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It was small and cute. It batted at my hand with curiosity. I stroked its head with affection.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It basked in the rays of afternoon. It was so cute, I couldn't bare to pick it up.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It rolled around on the cushion. It batted at the strings holding the cushion to the chair. The kitten fell over, and batted at the cushion with one white paw.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. I stroked her. Her fur was warm and fluffy.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It fell into my lap. I stroked its fur.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It curled up into a bundle of fur. It lay still. It gazed at me with big, green eyes. They were beautiful and bright.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It curled up, and fell asleep. It's paws were so cute and tiny.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It stared at me with its big, green eyes. I reached out my hand, and it stood there, staring at me.

The kitten leapt onto the chair across from me. It balanced carefully on its hind legs. It batted at the milk jug lid. It tried so hard to get the milk. It didn't get the milk. I petted the kitten.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I walked along the grassy hillside. The sun shone brightly upon the trees. A little bird flew overhead.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I sat by the river and watched the water. The water was warm, but not too hot. It smelled good.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I wanted to run. I had never been outside before. My eyes were tired from staring at the sun.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. My feet hurt from the wetness. I sat down by the river. A small stream flowed nearby. It smelled sweet and clean.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I had never seen such grass before. It smelled good too. My feet hurt from stepping on the soft earth.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I saw a little dog that licked its lips. Its eyes were bright red. It ran up the stairs and out the front door.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I had never seen such grass before. I walked along the edge of the field. A little bird flew past me. It fluttered its wings, and then turned away from me.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. I sat by the fire and watched the stars shine. They shone brightly.

The damp ground was soft underfoot. My feet hurt from walking on it. A dog barked at the moon. It shone bright like a star.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She jumped up, and then fell back down. The door opened.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She opened it. She went inside.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She jumped up and out the window.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She reached for the knob, but her foot slipped and she fell. Her eyes rolled back in her head. She began to cry out. I wanted to help her, but there was nothing I could do.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She leapt out the window. She flew high up into the air. I watched her soar away from the house.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She jumped up and caught the handle. With her other hand, she held on tight to the door frame. As she pulled herself out, she let go of the door. She looked so cute when she did that!

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She jumped up and out the window. Her fur was white as snow. A light wind blew her hair back.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She grabbed the handle, but fell. She picked herself up. Her eyes were red and puffy from crying. A tear rolled down her cheek.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She jumped up and out. She ran along the path. I watched her run, wondering what she was doing there.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She jumped up and out the window. She flew through the air, and then came back down. She was very fast.

With a leap, she ran towards the door. She jumped up and ran out the front door. I watched her run.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. Its eyes were bright and its ears were pointy. It hopped along the road. I saw it running away from something dark and terrible.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. It ran across the road. The hare had two legs, but three eyes. Its ears twitched when it saw you.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. Its eyes were bright red. It jumped over the fence.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. It jumped over the fence. It dashed along the road.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. Its eyes shone like stars. It ran across the field. I watched as it disappeared from sight.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. It jumped up onto the roof. I watched it for awhile. It had black fur, and a white face. I wanted to pet its head, but there was no one here to do that.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. It was black and white, like a ghost. I wanted to run after it.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. Its eyes were big and round. It ran across the road.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. It was small, but fast. I wanted to play catch with it. When I caught it, it would jump up and run away.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. Its eyes were bright as they stared at me. It ran along the road. The moon shone brightly on its fur.

The hare leapt through the moonlight. It ran along the road. The hare's eyes shone like stars. It seemed to be looking for something.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He had no fear. His eyes shone like stars. His body was big, but his head was small. When he jumped, his tail swished back and forth as if it were a fan.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He jumped over the fence. His eyes were red like blood. He leaped from one house to another, jumping over fences, until he reached his home.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He had no fear. I watched him jump. His eyes seemed to see far away places that only he could know about.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He jumped over the fence and disappeared.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He had such agility that he jumped over the fence several times. I loved him so much.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He had been running across the yard when he jumped over the fence. He ran away from home.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He jumped over the fence. His eyes were bright red. He had no ears or tail. He was very skinny, but he had a big head that looked like it held a lot of wisdom.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He jumped from one side of the yard to another. The man who owned him said he had no name. I asked what that meant, and he told me how he wanted to be called something special for his birthday.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He jumped over the fence. He went up the hill. He ran across the yard. The boy climbed onto his back and hugged him tight.

He could leap over the fence in a single bound. He would jump over the fence, but he wouldn't get far. I wanted him to go away from there.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. They were so fast, they seemed to be moving through air.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. Its antlers shone like gold. I watched it run along the road. It was fast, but not too fast for me to catch up with it.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. Its antlers were like jewels. It had a face that was black and white. The deer's eyes shone brightly when it saw me.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It jumped onto the ground. I watched it run away from me.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It ran along the road. It was so fast that it seemed like it could go anywhere.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It jumped up onto the house's porch. It had a white coat like mine. I saw it run away from its home and hide in the woods.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. Its antlers were black and white. It was so big that it had to be three times bigger than any other deer I'd ever seen before.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. They were big and black. They had sharp teeth that could rip your head off.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. Its antlers gleamed like silver. It stood there for a moment, then it turned around and ran away.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It leaped from branch to branch. It jumped over the fence. I watched it run across the yard.

The deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It jumped from branch to branch. Its eyes shone like stars.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is a master of stealth and cunning.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is able to do this because he has learned how to move quickly without actually moving. This skill allows him to evade enemies' attacks, but not their strikes.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is known for his speed, but he has no real strength.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is able to do this because he has learned how to avoid danger without actually doing anything about it.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is also known for his ability to change his shape into that of any animal he wishes.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is very fast, but he has no strength.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is known for his speed, agility, and grace.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is always ready for battle.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is a master of dodging.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is not afraid of death.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is able to do this because he has been trained for combat from birth.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is a master of this art.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is always ready for battle.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is known for his agility and speed.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is not one who enjoys fighting, but he will fight to protect those close to him.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is a master of this art.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is not above using trickery or deceit to achieve his goals.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is a master of this art.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is very good at evading and can evade most attacks.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is very fast, but he has no special powers.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is a master of evasion, and can take any foe by surprise.

He uses his quickness to gain an advantage over his foes by always leaping out of the way of enemy attacks, never attacking directly, and fleeing if necessary. He is not a warrior, but he has learned how to fight well enough that he can survive.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. It jumped up, but fell back down. It kept running, until it found a tree branch that was too high for it to jump from. The deer let out a pained howl as it died.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. It had been hunting for days. Its eyes glowed red. I saw its antlers as it ran by.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. It was so fast that it caught me by surprise. I fell backwards onto the ground. I saw its eyes staring at me. They stared right back at me as they leaped away from me.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. It was a wild jump. I watched it land. The deer's eyes shone like stars. Its body was black and white as snow.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. A tree fell over. I saw the deer hit the ground. It lay there motionless, looking up at me.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. I saw it jump. I watched as it flew away from me. It went through the trees and disappeared into the forest.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. It took one step forward, then two steps back. I watched it for awhile. Then, it turned around and ran away from me.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. It was so fast, that it hurt my eyes. It fell from the sky.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. I saw it jump. I watched as it flew. It was so fast that I could not catch up with it.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. It was a big one. I saw its antlers from afar. It had a mane like a horse's. Its eyes were green as well as bright red.

The deer made a leap towards the woods. It took two steps, then leapt again. It jumped over a fence. A hunter shot it twice. The deer fell from the sky, landing on a tree branch.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A quick dip. Then a jump. My eyes are wide open now. I can see everything clearly.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A leap that took hours. My eyes glazed over when I saw the sun rise.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A dance. A song. I felt the wind blow against my face.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A small bird flew up to me. I petted its head. Its beak was sharp like a needle, but soft like a feather.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A light step, but a powerful stride. The wind blew. My eyes followed the breeze. I saw a river flowing by.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A bird flew over my head. I watched it fly away. I had never seen such beauty before.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A bird flew past. I watched it fly away. It was so pretty that I wanted to watch it forever.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A small bird flew by. I watched it fly away.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A small bird flew away. I watched it fly. The sky was blue, and the sun shone brightly.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A small, white bird flew away. It fluttered along the ground.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A long jump. An easy jump. A short jump. Jumping over a wall.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A drop onto a rock. An upward jump. I watched the cat run up and down the mountain.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A small bird flew past. I watched it fly away.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A perfect jump. I had never seen anything like it before.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A smooth jump. An easy jump. This is what I wanted to do when I grew up.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A bird flew over my head. I watched it fly away.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A jump that could only be done by a bird. It was a small, black bird with a white face. Its wings were short and thin. It flew gracefully across the sky.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A small tree fell over. I watched it fall. It hit the ground hard. The large leaves fluttered as they caught in the wind.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A smile that could make your heart beat faster.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A long jump from one tree to another. I saw him fly. He flew so high that he seemed like a bird. His wings were black and white, and his beak was red and yellow.

A graceful leap from one rock to another. A jump that could only be done by a person who had mastered his or her body. I saw the girl's face reflected in the rocks. She smiled at me, but did not speak.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It jumped up onto the porch. It looked like a big cat, but its fur was white and it had four legs instead of five.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It ran along the road. I watched it run.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It ran up the tree. It jumped from branch to branch. I watched it run. I saw its fur as it ran.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It jumped up onto the porch. It stood there for a moment, looking around. Then it went inside.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It jumped up onto the porch. It sat there for a moment, looking at me. Then it licked its lips and leaped back into the yard.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It jumped onto the back porch. It looked like it wanted to jump up and down, but it stopped itself from doing so.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. I saw it jump. It jumped high, but it fell short. It hit the ground hard and lay still. A squirrel sat by its side, watching it sleep.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It jumped up onto the porch. It walked around the house and into the backyard. It sat on top of a tree stump and stared out across the yard.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It jumped up onto the porch. It ran around the back of the house. The cat's fur was black and white as it ran along the front lawn.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It jumped up onto the porch. It stood there for a moment, looking around. Then it leaped from the porch.

The cat leapt over the fence into the yard. It jumped up onto the porch. I watched it jump and leap until it fell from the sky. Then, I saw that it had wings. They weren't feathers like mine, but they were long and thin.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It stalked across the lawn. I saw it leap onto the back porch. It took off its fur coat, and threw it over itself. The leopard looked fierce as it jumped up onto the porch.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It ran toward the river. I watched it run. The leopard had fur like a lion, but with stripes instead of black spots.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It ran across the street. It had fur like a tiger, but it was faster than any tiger I've ever seen.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It stood up and walked away. Its eyes shone like a lion's. It looked fierce and powerful.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It stood up and roared. Its roar shook the trees. A cloud rose above the jungle. The leopard's eyes glowed red, and it lunged forward.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It ran up the tree. Its eyes shone like stars. I watched it run for a while, then I went back to sleep.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It jumped over the wall. It darted across the room. I watched it run.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It ran up the tree. Its eyes glowed like fire. It roared as it charged towards the house.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It was a big one. Its fur was black and white. The leopard's eyes shone like two pools of fire. It walked across the room and sat on the floor next to me.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It took a quick look around before leaping out of sight.

The leopard leapt from its hiding place. It went for the child's hand. He grabbed his mother's paw. She held him close. They ran along the road together.

The frog made a leap at my leg and I screamed. My mom told me that if I ever hurt myself again, she'd kill me. She said I had to learn how to be strong for her.

The frog made a leap at my leg and I screamed. It fell into a bucket. I held onto the bucket and cried. The frog was cute and red as it jumped.

The frog made a leap at my leg and I screamed. It fell into a bucket. A man came out of the house and said he had found the frog. He put it back in its box and gave me some money for it.

The frog made a leap at my leg and I screamed. I fell. My foot went through the window. It hurt like hell when it hit my skin. I cried out for help, but no one came.

The frog made a leap at my leg and I screamed. My mommy grabbed me by the hand and said, "Don't scream." She held me close. We walked along the road.

The frog made a leap at my leg and I screamed. I jumped back, but the frog had caught me by surprise. He grabbed my hand and pulled me towards him.

The frog made a leap at my leg and I screamed. The frog jumped up and out of my hand. I saw it go into the air and land on top of the wall. Then, it sat there looking at me.

The frog made a leap at my leg and I screamed. The frog's eyes were red. It had a big mouth full of teeth. Its tongue was long and black. It jumped up from the floor and out of my hand.

The frog made a leap at my leg and I screamed. It hit the ground and rolled over. I saw it's eyes shine brightly. They were red like fireflies.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. A small tree is right there. The branches are thick and dark.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. I jump from branch to branch. My feet are cold and wet. I am scared.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. A tree branch is not big enough for it to jump from. The little creature jumped onto the branch.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. A little more, and it will be over the tree. I jump for the branch. My feet hit the bark with a thud. I look up at the sky. The moon shines bright in its light.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. A little higher, and it will be over. But if you jump too high, your foot slips from the branch. You must choose how far to go up or down.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. I watched as the little bird flew up. Its wingspan was only a few inches. I had never seen anything like it before.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. I jump up and grab onto the branch. My hand goes from one side of the tree to another. Then, I pull myself up. I look around for something to hold on to.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. A small tree branches out from the ground. It's leaves are smooth and round like a duck's bill.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. Jump! Jump! Jump!

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. The branches are high enough that they can't be reached by the smallest person. They're too small for me, but not big enough for you.

A tiny leap is all it takes to reach the branch above. It's dark. I can't see anything. A small light shines from the tree branches above me.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. It ran away. I followed it.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. The little mouse jumped up and down. He squeaked, he whined, he sang a song. I knew what that song was.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. It jumped up and down and squealed.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. It ran away from the house.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. I chased after it. It jumped over the fence. I watched as it hopped across the yard.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. I wanted to play with the mouse.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. A man caught it. He gave it to me. I ate some of the cheese. It tasted good, but there was too much for one day's eating.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. It ran along the floor. I watched it run. The mouse's eyes glowed red. Its nose was pointed like a snout, but its mouth was curved like a bill.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. The little mouse was so cute!

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. It ran up the wall. The mouse's eyes were large and round.

The tiny mouse leapt out of its hole and stole a piece of cheese. A little girl caught it from her hand. She put the cheese back into the hole.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It turned its head around and licked its lips. It jumped up and down. I wanted to play with it.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It disappeared from sight.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It went straight ahead. It turned its head to look back. It ran fast, but then stopped. The deer's eyes widened when it saw me. Its ears pricked up, and it bolted away from me.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. Its fur was white and its eyes were blue. It ran along the road. I saw it run out from under a bush.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It darted away from the house. I watched it run, and then I saw that it had been shot by a hunter.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It jumped into the grass. I watched it run.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It ran along the road.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It jumped from branch to branch. I watched it run.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. Its eyes shone like stars. It ran quickly away from the house.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. It leaped from branch to branch. I watched it run.

The small deer leapt gracefully over the fallen tree. Its eyes shone like stars. I stared at it for hours.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They jumped over the fence. The dog barked loudly and chased them away.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They grabbed the cat by its ears and pulled it back up onto the roof. Then they threw it over their shoulders. It fell, but didn't get far before they caught it again and dragged it back up.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They jumped over the fence. They ran along the road.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They found that they could not catch the cat. They knew they had failed.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They grabbed the man by his shirt and pulled him back. He screamed and tried to run away from them. He was a big fellow, but they had overpowered him easily.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They jumped over the fence. A man came out from behind the fence. He was tall and broad-shouldered. His face had a beard that went all the way to his feet.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They jumped over the fence. The dog barked, but they ignored him. They were hungry and thirsty after their journey from the swamp.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They grabbed the boy by his arms and legs. He screamed and tried to run away from them.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They jumped over the fence. They ran along the road.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They grabbed the cat and dragged it back to their house. They said they had never seen anything like it before.

They caught the scent and leapt forward quickly. They found the body. A man lay dead by the river. He had been killed by a bear.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She was a graceful creature. Her eyes shone like stars.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She didn't look scared. Her eyes were bright and clear.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She stopped and turned her head. Her eyes shone like sapphires. I wanted to touch them. They were so bright that they hurt my eyes when I stared at them for too long.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She was very fast. I watched her run. Then, she disappeared from sight.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She stopped in mid-air and stared up at the sky. She had a white face and red eyes. Her body was smooth as glass.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She didn't look like a deer. She looked like a wild animal. Her eyes were wide and her ears twitched back and forth. I wanted to touch her, but I couldn't reach her fast enough.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She had a graceful gait. Her eyes shone like stars. I watched her run past the trees.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She went over the fence. She had sharp teeth that could tear your head off if you didn't watch her carefully.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She ran fast, but then slowed. Then she stopped. She turned her head and stared at me. Her eyes were blue and green, like mine.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She was small and slender, like a little deer. Her eyes were large and black. She walked fast, but her steps were light.

The doe sprang across the brook in a single leap. She was so fast that she flew over the bridge. Her eyes glowed like stars. They shone bright and clear as they stared back at me from her face.

The frog leapt through the grass. It fell from the sky. I watched it land on the ground. It jumped up and down, but did not move.

The frog leapt through the grass. It jumped onto the ground. It let out a squeal and fell backwards.

The frog leapt through the grass. It fell into a puddle. I watched it jump and splash around.

The frog leapt through the grass. It jumped over the fence. It fell into a puddle. The puddle was deep and dark. I watched the frog swim in the darkness.

The frog leapt through the grass. He jumped up, and then he fell back down. He had a big mouthful of grass. He was green, but not red or orange like most frogs are.

The frog leapt through the grass. It fell into a puddle. It splashed up in the air. The frog jumped out of the puddle and onto a rock. It bounced around for awhile before it landed on something soft and wet.

The frog leapt through the grass. He jumped over the fence. The frog's eyes were red and bloodshot. His body was hairy, but smooth. He had a long tongue that stuck out from his mouth.

The frog leapt through the grass. It jumped over the fence. The frog had long legs and a small head. Its eyes shone like stars in the sky.

The frog leapt through the grass. It had a green skin and big eyes. Its legs were long and skinny. I watched it jump through the grass.

The frog leapt through the grass. It was green and smooth. Its eyes were red and black. The frog's body was white and its legs were pink. I saw the frog run away from me, but then it came back to me again.

The frog leapt through the grass. He jumped over the fence. The frog's skin was smooth and soft like that of a baby goat. His eyes shone bright blue.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. I screamed. My mother grabbed me by the hand and ran from the room. She yelled for her husband to call 911.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. I screamed and fell backwards. My eyes opened wide as they stared at the creature. It had three legs, but only two arms. Its body was small, and its head was big.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. It had long arms that were covered in hair. Its face was large and round. It had two eyes like a hawk's, but its beak was sharp and pointed.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. It had sharp claws. Its skin was black and red like fire. Its eyes were dark blue, but its pupils were yellow. Its mouth was wide open, revealing rows of teeth that gleamed in the moonlight.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. I screamed and tried to run away. It grabbed me by the throat, and ripped my clothes off. He took me into the woods, and put his hands around my neck.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. It grabbed me by the throat. Its mouth was huge and red. It had two black eyes that stared at mine. He pulled my head up to his mouth, and then he bit into my neck.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. He had black fur, like a wolf's. His eyes were red, like fire. He leaped at me. I screamed and fell backwards onto the floor. My heart pounded in my chest and I felt cold all over my body.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. It grabbed me by the hair and pulled me from behind. It held me tightly against its body. I screamed, but it didn't stop. It kept pulling until I fell to the ground.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. I screamed and jumped back. He grabbed me by the neck and pulled me up onto his shoulder. His hands were rough like sandpaper. They felt cold against my skin. His mouth was sharp like a knife, but he had no teeth.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. It grabbed me by the neck. I screamed for help. My mom came running from her room. She told me that she had to run, because there was something chasing after her son.

Before I knew what was happening, the creature leapt out at me. He had long black hair, and green eyes. His skin was pale white like snow. The creature grabbed me by the hand and pulled me towards him. As we came closer together, he began to pull away from me.

The hare leapt out of the hole. It ran along the road. I watched it run.

The hare leapt out of the hole. She hopped over the fence. I watched her run. The hare was very fast. It had a tail like a snake, but not as thick or long as that of a rat.

The hare leapt out of the hole. It was dark and cold. It had no fur, but its legs were like those of a rabbit. I could see the white of its eyes. I wanted to play with it.

The hare leapt out of the hole. It jumped over the fence. It ran along the road. I watched it run for awhile, then I went back inside.

The hare leapt out of the hole. It jumped up onto the porch. I watched it for awhile. Then, it went back inside.

The hare leapt out of the hole. It ran along the road. The hare was small and furry like a rabbit. It had two black eyes that stared into mine.

The hare leapt out of the hole. She ran along the road. I watched her run. The hare's fur was silky smooth. I wanted to touch it, but I couldn't reach it because there was a fence around the house.

The hare leapt out of the hole. It ran along the road. A man chased after it. He had a gun in his hand. The hare jumped over a fence, and ran up a hill.

The hare leapt out of the hole. It dashed across the field. I watched it run away from me. It turned around and disappeared into the forest.

The hare leapt out of the hole. It ran up the hill.

The hare leapt out of the hole. It ran along the road. I saw it jump over the fence. I followed it until it disappeared from sight.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It jumped into the air. I watched it soar into the sky. The deer looked like a little bird, but it had wings. I saw its feathers flutter as it flew away from me.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It jumped up onto the fence. Its eyes were wide and its ears twitched. It was a tiny little thing, but it had big eyes.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It hopped across the yard. It jumped up onto the porch. It leaped from the window and fell to the ground. I watched it for awhile, until it disappeared into a bush.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It disappeared from sight. A large dog barked loudly. The little deer had been hiding under the bush when it jumped out and hid behind the house.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It turned its head and smiled. Its eyes sparkled like stars.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It stopped and turned around. It stared at me, its eyes wide. I saw that it had no ears. Its face was white as snow.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It ran along the road. I wanted to play catch with it.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. Its eyes were bright green. The deer jumped up and down. It was very fast.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It ran away from me.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It ran up a hill. It seemed so fast.

A small deer leapt gracefully over the bushes. It went up to the tree. It jumped from branch to branch. I watched it for awhile, until it disappeared into the trees.

The bunny leapt across the field. It was small, and quick. I saw it run up a hill. It turned its head to look back at me.

The bunny leapt across the field. It was a big rabbit. It jumped up and over the fence. The bunny had no fur on its back or sides. It looked like it could have been white as snow.

The bunny leapt across the field. It jumped over the fence. I watched it run away from me.

The bunny leapt across the field. It hopped over the fence. I watched it run. It was green and fluffy like a bunny should be.

The bunny leapt across the field. It jumped over the fence. It fell from the sky. I watched it land on a tree stump. A rabbit's feet are green like mine, but its ears are red like yours.

The bunny leapt across the field. It jumped up and over the fence. It ran along the road. I watched it run.

The bunny leapt across the field. It hopped over the fence. I watched it run away from me.

The bunny leapt across the field. It jumped up onto a tree. It looked like a rabbit, but it wasn't one. The bunny hopped along the ground, and then it leaped from branch to branch.

The bunny leapt across the field. It jumped over the fence. The rabbit's fur was smooth and shiny like glass. I saw its eyes shine when it stared at me.

The bunny leapt across the field. It jumped over the fence. It ran fast. I wanted to play catch with it, but there wasn't enough room for both of us.

The bunny leapt across the field. It hopped over the fence. I watched it run away from me.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I saw a man sitting by his car. He waved at me. I jumped up and ran towards him. He pulled out a cigarette lighter and lit my hand. His eyes were like two big black holes that stared at me all day long.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I saw the sun coming up. It was a beautiful day. I wanted to jump over the ditch.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I jumped over the ditch. It was dark, but I could see the sky. A bird flew by. It was so pretty that I wanted to pet it.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I wanted to jump over the ditch. But I didn't know how. So I sat there and watched the sky. Then, after awhile, I jumped across the ditch.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I saw a man standing there. He had dark hair and wore a red shirt. His eyes were bright blue.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I could see the sky. I wanted to jump over the ditch. I had never seen anything like it before.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I could jump over it. It was just there for fun. But then, I thought about the man who had once jumped over that ditch. He was tall and thin like you are now.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I could see the moonlight from above. I had never seen the sky so bright. My eyes burned, but I knew that I wanted to jump over the ditch.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I wanted to jump.

I was going to leap over the ditch. But I stopped myself. I had seen that there was a tree across the road from the house. So, I could not jump over it.

I was going to leap over the ditch. I jumped over the ditch. I ran up the hill. The sun shone brightly upon me. My feet felt soft and warm on the ground.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. It was hard to see. I saw that the sky was blue. I tried to catch it, but could not do so.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. I could not understand what it was. It seemed like something that you should be able to see, but you couldn't.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. I wanted to touch it. I felt like I could eat it.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. It was like a stone. I stared at it for a while. The moon shone brightly upon it.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. It was large and round. I wanted to touch it, but I couldn't reach it.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. It was a tree trunk. It had branches that reached out for me. I could see the sky above me, but I couldn't reach it.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. It was a small, round object that seemed to float in the air. I wanted to grab it.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. I wanted to touch it. But then, I remembered that I had to go home.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. I could not understand what it was. It felt like a rock. A small, dark cloud floated by the window.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. I held onto it for dear life. It seemed to be moving in slow motion.

It was an object difficult to grasp or to hold on to. It was too big for me. My hands hurt from holding them on it. I could not see what it was.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. I saw a man walking along the road. He wore a hat and a coat. He had dark hair and eyes that seemed to see everything.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. It all came back to me, but I could not place it. I had never seen a house before. My eyes scanned the sky for stars. A small cloud appeared in the corner of my eye.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. I could only see it briefly. My eyes were tired from looking at the sky for too long.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. I could only see the image. My eyes were wide open. I saw a bright light, and then nothingness.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. My mind seemed to be moving around. I could hear the sound of rain outside. I knew it was raining, but I didn't know why.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. But, I remember that I had a big tree house. We played there all the time. Sometimes we sat on the grass and talked about things. Then, sometimes we climbed up onto the branches and looked out over the world.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. My mind was still cloudy. But I knew that there had been a tree. A big, majestic tree. It had branches like the sky. And it smelled delicious.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. I could only see the world around me. I saw a man sitting by a fire. He had a hat on his head. He wore a blue coat over a white shirt. His eyes were wide open as he stared at the flames.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. But I knew that I had seen a man in a green coat. He wore a hat and held a cane.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. I could see the sky. I saw stars. They seemed so big and bright, like they were shining from nowhere.

I couldn't quite grasp the memory. I just saw the sky. I had no idea what that meant.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He had a big smile on his face. We went upstairs. I saw him sitting by the fire, reading a book. His eyes were bright blue.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He smelled like roses. We sat down together and talked about our lives.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He had a big smile on his face. We went inside.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He held onto me tightly. We walked through the hallway together. My eyes were closed, but he was holding my hand tight.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He held onto me tightly. We went up the stairs together.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He held onto me tightly. We went inside.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He smelled like strawberries. His hair was white as snow. We sat together on the sofa.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He had a smile on his face. We went inside. I sat down next to him and he put his arm around me.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He held out his hand. We walked through the doorway together.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He held onto me tightly. We walked together for a while. Then he let go of me. I stared at him blankly, but he didn't look back at me.

I grasped his hand as we walked through the door. He held up his hand for me to pet. We went inside.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He held my hand tight. I wanted to go home.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He held me tight. We sat there for hours, watching the stars.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He grabbed mine back. We ran down the road together.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He pulled me along. We went deeper into the woods. As we walked, he told me stories about himself. They were strange tales that made me feel happy inside.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He grabbed mine back. We held each other tight.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He held my hand tight. We sat there for hours, staring out across the town.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He pulled me up. We ran. The sky was blue, and we ran through fields of grass. A man came out from behind a tree. He grabbed us both by the shoulders and threw us into a ditch.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He held onto me. We sat there for hours. We talked about everything. My name is _____.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He held onto me tight. We walked together for hours. I asked him questions about everything he knew. His eyes sparkled when he answered them.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He held onto me. We walked together for hours.

I grasped his hand as tightly as I could. He held onto me. We walked along the road together.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He had black fur all over him. His eyes were bright blue. They stared at me, and then they turned away from me.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He was very fast.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He had a big mouth full of sharp teeth. I wanted to touch him, but I didn't know how.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He had a strange face, and his eyes seemed to be glowing. His hair was black as night.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He didn't look happy.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He stood there for a moment, looking at me. Then he disappeared.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He was running, and then he stopped. His eyes were wide open. He stared at me, and then he smiled.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He had a big nose, and eyes that seemed to see everything. I wanted to play with him.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He jumped up and down. I thought he was happy.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He had black eyes, and they seemed to follow you. His nose was crooked, but his lips were white. He looked at me from under his fur.

He looked like he was grasping something in his hand, but I couldn't tell what it was. He was holding onto something, but I didn't know what it was.

I grasped the flashlight tightly and took a deep breath. I turned on the light. I could see the dark sky above me. It was so bright, but it made me feel safe.

I grasped the flashlight tightly and took a deep breath. I shone the light toward the sky. I saw stars. They were so bright, they burned my eyes.

I grasped the flashlight tightly and took a deep breath. I held it to my face. The moonlight shone upon me. It was so bright that I could see everything clearly. My eyes were wide open, and they stared straight aheadand then they closed again.

I grasped the flashlight tightly and took a deep breath. I looked around and saw nothing but darkness. I turned the light on. The moonlight illuminated the room.

I grasped the flashlight tightly and took a deep breath. I held it close to my face. I could see the moonlight through the trees.

I grasped the flashlight tightly and took a deep breath. I looked up at the sky. It was full of stars. They shone brightly in the darkness. I stared at them for a moment, and then turned away from them and walked into the forest.

I grasped the flashlight tightly and took a deep breath. I could see a man's face. He wore a black suit. His hair was white and his eyes were blue. He smiled at me, but I didn't smile back.

I grasped the flashlight tightly and took a deep breath. I put the light on the floor. I saw a dark shape. It had black hair, and wore a hooded cloak. It walked slowly towards me, like it knew what was coming next.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. I had no idea what I was doing. My foot slipped off the edge. The world went black for a moment.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. I knew that if I fell, I would die. My heart pounded in my chest.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. I could not let go. My heart beat fast. I had never felt fear before. Then, it all went black.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. A man had come up from below. He said he was going to jump off the bridge. I wanted to see him jump, but I couldn't go near the river or the bridge for fear that he might try to grab me while jumping.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. My heart raced. I could see the sky above me. I held onto the rail for dear life. A bird flew by. It was so bright that it burned my eyes.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. My heart pounded. I was afraid that the boat might sink, or that I would be swept away by the current.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. My heart raced. A man came out from behind the wall. He was tall and thin, his face pale and drawn. His eyes were black as tar, but he wore no mask.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. I had to get out of this house. I was scared.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. A man pushed me away from the railing. He had black hair and wore a green tunic. His eyes were dark, but his face was handsome.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. I knew that if I fell, I wouldn't be able to get back up.

I grasped my hand tightly around the railing. My heart beat fast. I felt like I had lost my mind. I could not see anything, but everything seemed dark and scary.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I couldn't let go. My fingers hurt. I could hear the sound of rain falling outside.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I could not let go. If I did, the rope would slip from my fingers.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I couldn't let go. I had to hold on tight. I didn't want to let go. My fingers felt like they were burning up from holding on tightly.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I could not let go. I tried to move my arm, but I couldn't do anything about the pain.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I could not let go. My hands were sweaty and hot. I had to hold onto the rope tightly for dear life!

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. My fingers hurt. I tried to pull myself up, but I couldn't move. The rope was too heavy for me to lift up.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I held onto the rope. I knew if I let go, I wouldn't be able to catch myself. If you could grab hold of something, then you can keep holding on until you are free.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I pulled hard. My hand hurt. I wanted to cry out, but couldn't do it. I felt like crying, but didn't want to be sad anymore.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I could not let go. I knew if I let go, the rope would slip from my fingers.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I could not let go. My fingers were like knives. The rope was heavy. I knew that if I let go, the rope would slip out of my hands and plummet to the ground below.

I had to grasp the rope with all my strength. I pulled hard. My fingers were sore for days after that day.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I thought about how strange that was. It had wings, yet it could not fly. It seemed very sad.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I tried again, and again, but it did not come back.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I tried again, and again, but nothing happened. Then, I saw that it had flown away from me. It flew up into the sky.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I tried again, and again, but it didn't come back. I wanted to pet it, but couldn't reach it.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I tried again, and again, but it did not come back. I thought about how hard it had been for me to get here. I wanted to cry.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I grabbed for it again, but it was gone. My fingers clutched nothing but air.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I looked for it again, but there was nothing. I wanted to find it, but the butterflies didn't seem to be coming back.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I touched its wings, and they felt soft. I watched it fly away.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I tried again, and again, but it did not come back. I began to cry.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I stared at it for a moment. I thought about how it had wings. They were so pretty, and they seemed to be moving.

I reached out to grasp the butterfly, but it flew away. I tried again, and again, until I caught it. It fluttered its wings and disappeared.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. I had been shot. My body fell to the ground. A man stood there holding a pistol to my head. He said he was going to kill you for being stupid enough to come here alone at night.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. My eyes rolled back in my head. I didn't know how much longer I had before the world went black.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. My eyes rolled back in my head. I didn't know how much longer I had. Then, it was gone.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. I felt a sudden pain in my chest. My heart stopped beating for a moment. Then, it began again.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. A man shot him. He fell back, and then he started shooting again. I saw his face. His eyes were wide open, but they didn't see anything around them. They just stared at me.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. My world was gone. I felt like I had been hit by a truck. A car crashed into me. I screamed out loud and fell backwards onto the ground.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. My eyes were opened wide. I had been burned by fire. I saw the face of a man who held a knife to my throat. He said he was going to kill me for being stupid enough to be born without a soul.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. I felt nothing. My eyes opened wide. I saw a man standing before me. He had dark hair and wore a black suit.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. My mother had been killed by the man who lived next door. He took her body and threw it into a nearby river. He told me not to cry for he did this because he loved me very much.

Before I could grasp what was happening, it was over. My father had been killed by a car. He was killed when he fell from his bicycle. I was too young to understand why this happened.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She grabbed my hand and hugged me tightly. We held each other for a long time. Then we fell asleep together.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She was so small, but I could hold her tight. We hugged each other tightly.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She grabbed my hand, and we walked together. We went to school. Her name was Susan. My name is Jake.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She smiled at me. Her eyes were big and round like mine. We held each other for a long time.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She held onto me tightly. We walked together. I could smell her hair on my hands.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She grabbed my hand and smiled. We held each other for hours. Her eyes were red from crying, but her smile was bright and happy.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She was holding her hands up. They were shaking. Her eyes were red and puffy from crying.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She grabbed my hand and held it tightly. We played together for hours. When we were done playing, she kissed me on the cheek and said goodbye.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She hugged me back. We held each other tight for what seemed like forever.

I reached out and grasped my little sister's hand. She had been crying for her mother. I held her hand tightly, and we walked home together.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I reached for my bag. I grabbed a bottle of milk from the fridge. I put it under my arm and started running.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I grabbed onto a tree branch. I wanted to run away from this place.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I knew that if I let go, they would be lost forever. So, I held onto them tightly.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I grabbed my backpack. I could not let go of it. My fingers went numb when they touched the bag. I saw a light in the corner of my eye. It was bright enough that it hurt my eyesight.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I climbed up the tree. My hands burned from holding onto branches. They hurt when they touched my skin. I reached for the sky above me, but found nothing there except darkness.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I grabbed onto a tree branch. I could not let go. A man came out from under a pile of leaves. He was tall and thin, like me. His hair was brown and his eyes were black as coal.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I grabbed my things from the bag. I wanted to grab some food, but there wasn't much left in the bag. I went back inside and found something to eat.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I grabbed my things and ran out of the house. The sky was dark, but there was no moon. I could not see anything. I ran as fast as I could.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I grabbed my books, but they didn't hold me. They fell from my hands. I tried to grab them again, but I couldn't get them back.

I had to grasp my possessions and escape. I grabbed my things and ran out of the house. I ran to the door. My hands trembled from fear.

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You will need to remember everything that is happening around you. As much as possible, you should try to keep your mind focused on one thing at a time.

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You must keep your mind open. The world is full of things that are not good for you. But they will pass. Keep your eyes wide open!

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You must understand everything that is happening around you. This will be your greatest challenge.

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You will be able to use this knowledge when you are older. This is your life now. Do not waste it!

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You will need to remember what is important.

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You will be able to survive this world. We are not alone.

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You must not be afraid to question everything. Everything is possible.

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You must be able to make connections between things. You must have imagination.

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You will need to know how to use it. This is your first lesson.

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You will be able to make your own decisions. Do not worry about what others think of you. If they do, then that is their problem.

You must learn to grasp all the information you can. You will need to know how to use this knowledge. For example, you may be able to find out what is inside the house by looking around for a certain object. Or maybe you want to go outside and play?

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He turned around and walked away.

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He stared at me. His eyes were like a dark blue moon. They seemed so sad and empty.

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He looked like a big black bear. His eyes were huge and scary. They stared right back at me.

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He said he didn't want to be touched by you.

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He was angry.

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He looked angry. I tried again, and he grabbed my hand. We walked together for a while. Then we stopped.

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He let go of me. I stared at him. His eyes were black and hollow like a hole. They seemed to be empty inside.

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He turned around and walked away. I watched him go.

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He didn't want me to touch him. I felt sad for awhile, then I got angry.

I reached out to grasp his arm, but he pulled it away. He stood there looking at me. I stared back. We were both silent for a moment. Then, we laughed together.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She began to cry. Her eyes were red and puffy. They were teary, but not like mine. I didn't know what had happened to her.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She held it close to her chest. Her eyes were red from crying. Tears fell onto the floor.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She cried for hours. Finally, she fell asleep.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She held it close to her chest. Tears streamed down her cheeks. Her eyes were red from crying. I didn't know what to do for her, but I knew that I had to help her somehow.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She sniffled and wiped away her eyes. Her mother held her hand. The girl's hair was dark brown, like mine.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She put her hand over her mouth. Tears streamed down her cheeks. Her eyes were red from crying.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She sobbed softly. Her eyes were red and puffy from crying. She cried for her brother, who had died three years ago.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She sobbed and cried. Her eyes were red from crying. Tears fell from her cheeks onto the floor. She wiped them away, but they wouldn't stop falling.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She held it close to her chest. Her eyes were red and puffy from crying.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She held it close to her chest. Her eyes were red from crying. A tear fell onto the trophy, and then another.

She grasped the trophy tightly in her hands, tears streaming down her face. She wiped them away, wiping her eyes. Her hair was brown, like mine. I had no idea what color hers was.

The captain grasped my arm just before I fell overboard. He pulled me back up. He said he loved me. I wanted to cry out, but couldn't do it.

The captain grasped my arm just before I fell overboard. He said, "I am sorry." Then he put his hand over my mouth. I could not scream out because he held my throat tight.

The captain grasped my arm just before I fell overboard. He said he wanted to see me again. I had no idea what he meant.

The captain grasped my arm just before I fell overboard. He said he didn't want me to go. He wanted me to stay. His voice was gentle and sweet. I knew that if I went back home, they'd throw me out of the house for being a bad girl.

The captain grasped my arm just before I fell overboard. He said he loved me. I could not believe him.

The captain grasped my arm just before I fell overboard. He pulled me back up.

The captain grasped my arm just before I fell overboard. He said he loved me. I smiled back at him. He took me to the ship, and told me that we had sailed far away from our home.

The captain grasped my arm just before I fell overboard. He said he wanted to go home. I told him that we had no more food for days. We would have died if we hadn't eaten some berries from the trees when they grew in season.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. I fell down the stairs. I tried to climb them again, but they were too steep. My legs hurt from the pain.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. I fell. My body hurt like hell. I felt cold and wet all over. A dog barked from outside the house.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. I fell from the balcony. I screamed. A man came out of his house and saw me falling. He picked me up and put me back on the balcony.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. My fingers curled into claws. I wanted to run away from this place.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. I fell from the bridge. The wind blew, and the rain poured down.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. I fell. I cried out. My heart pounded in my chest. I saw stars.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. A big man came out from behind the wall. He had a huge knife. His eyes were black like coal, and his nose was long and pointed.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. I fell onto the floor. My foot hurt so much that I could barely walk. The world was dark and cold.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. I could only see the darkness beyond. A man sat by himself on the edge of a bridge. He had a lantern in his hand. His face was pale, like mine, but he wore a black suit instead of his usual white one.

I grasped for the railing but couldn't reach it. I grabbed onto the wall instead. I let go when I reached the bottom.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. I wanted to read them all.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. I could only read them from the bottom of the book.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were heavy, and I could not lift them up. A book fell from the shelf. It hit me in the head.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. I could only reach them by reaching out and grabbing onto the shelves.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. My hands hurt from holding them. I could not read what they said.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. I could only see the pages. I had to read them all, but they kept changing from page to page.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. I could only look at them, and read their words.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. I could only read them from the bottom. My eyes were tired, but they still watched over you.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. I could only see them from below. I read about animals and plants that lived in this forest.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. I could only see them from below. I wanted to reach out and touch them, but couldn't move any part of myself.

The books on the top shelf were beyond my grasp. They were too heavy for me to lift up. I could only reach them by climbing. I wanted to read more about the sky.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. Her legs were tired from running. She fell to her knees, and began to cry. Tears streamed down her face.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. She could see the sun, and she knew that she had won. But then, she saw something else. A man with a gun pointed at her from behind the finish line.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. She had been running for hours, but now she could not keep up. Her legs buckled under her.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. She had no idea what awaited her there.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. She had won the race. Her eyes were full of tears as she held onto victory. A man came up behind her and grabbed her hand. He pulled her forward. They fell together into the finish line.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. She had been running for hours, but she knew that the end was near. Her legs felt weak and heavy. The sun beat down upon her face, blinding her eyes.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. Her arms wrapped around you. She held your hand tightly. You both fell from the sky, landing on the ground. Your eyes met. They sparkled like stars.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. She had a goal that she wanted to achieve. Her mind was clear, her legs strong, and her body fit.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. She could see the finish line, but she didn't have enough time to cross it. Her body felt heavy as she walked along the path. She had been walking for hours when she stopped.

Success lay within her grasp as she approached the finish line. She had passed the first two checkpoints. Now, she faced the final checkpoint. If she could pass this one, then she would be home free!

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He was a little bird that flew around us. His feathers were red and black. We had many friends, but he was our friend.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He picked up one of them and held it in his hand. A little bird flew away from him.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He had many pockets. His eyes were like two moons. They shone brightly from behind his glasses.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He walked along, looking for something. Then he stopped. A small boy sat next to him. His name was Charlie Brown.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He picked up one stone, and held it to his mouth. A little bird flew by.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He had been a great warrior. His eyes were like stars. He was a good hunter.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He had a little dog by his side. They were both looking up at the sky. The dog licked its lips and stood still, while the man walked forward.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He wore a brown belt around his waist, with two rings. His eyes glowed like sapphires.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He had a big, fat nose that smelled like rotten eggs. His eyes were round and brown.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He had a bag of rocks. They glittered under the moonlight.

Grey, pink, blue and white stones scattered out of his leather pouch onto the dirt. He walked along the path. His eyes were like saucers. They shone brightly.

My mom scattered the cards on the table. She told me to pick up one card. I picked up a red card. My mother smiled when she saw that I had chosen her favorite color.

My mom scattered the cards on the table. She didn't want me to play them. They were too hard for me. I wanted to be like you, she said. You are smart and good at everything!

My mom scattered the cards on the table. She said that they were all good cards. They had been playing for years, but never played together like this before. My mom told me to play too.

My mom scattered the cards on the table. She picked up the ones that had faces. They were all different colors. She held them out for me to see.

My mom scattered the cards on the table. She had them all. I saw her shuffle the cards. They were big, and shiny like diamonds.

My mom scattered the cards on the table. She had a large deck of cards. They were red, black, and white. The cards were all different shapes and sizes. My mother was very good at playing games with me.

My mom scattered the cards on the table. She had many games. One game was called "Cards Against Humanity." I watched her play for hours.

My mom scattered the cards on the table. She said that if they fell onto the floor, they could be found again.

My mom scattered the cards on the table. She had a lot of them. They were all different colors. My dad told me that they belonged to him.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees. I saw them flutter down.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees. I saw them float away. I watched them go by.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They flew across the sky. A bird soared high above the trees. I watched it fly away from me.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees. I watched them fall. They fell fast, but they fell all over the place.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees. I could see them falling like snowflakes.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees. I saw them flutter in the air. I watched them float away.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees. I saw them flutter down onto the ground. A little girl sat by a tree and played with her pet rabbit. She had brown hair and wore a green dress.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees. I saw them flutter down onto the ground. They were so soft and smooth, like silk. I watched them float away from me.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees. They floated in the air. I saw them float by me. My eyes closed, and I slept.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees like snowflakes. I saw them falling. My eyes closed, and I slept.

The leaves scattered in the wind. They fell from the trees. The sky grew dark. I saw stars. They shone brightly in the darkness.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They were very small, but they were cute. I wanted to pet them all over their little bodies.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They ran up and down the stairs. They jumped over the fence. They ran along the road. I watched them run, wondering what they were doing there.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They jumped over the fence. I saw them jump and hop around. The rabbits were so cute and fluffy!

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They all wanted to go home. They ran around the house until they found their way back to the garden.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They were so cute! I wanted to pet them.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They jumped over the fence and ran across the road. I watched them run until they disappeared from sight.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They had been friends since they were little. Now, they just wanted to be left alone.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They jumped over the fence. I saw them run out from under the bridge. I watched them jump and hop until they disappeared into the trees.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They jumped over the fence. The bunnies were small, but they had big eyes. I saw them jump and hop. Then, one bunny fell from the sky and landed on a bush.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They jumped up and down, but they didn't run.

Before my eyes, the bunnies scattered and hopped away. They were so cute! I wanted to pet them all over their bodies. I saw a bunny hopping across the road. It had small ears, and a tail like a rabbit's.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell like snowflakes. I watched them float away from each other. Then they fell again, and again, until there was nothing but red petals floating in the wind.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell like snowflakes. I watched them fall. One fell near me. I saw it, and tried not to cry out in fear.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell from the sky like snowflakes. I watched them fall. The wind blew them away. They flew far away. I wanted to go home, but they kept falling.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell like snowflakes. The sun shone brightly upon them. A gust blew some of the blossoms away from me. I stood there, watching them fall.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell like snowflakes. My mother sat by them, smiling. She held me close to her chest. Her smile was sweet and warm.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell like snowflakes. A gust blew them away from me. I could not see the blossom's color, but they were red and white and yellow.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell like snowflakes. A black cloud rose from the heap of flowers. It grew larger and larger until it reached the sky. Then, it disappeared.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They floated away from each other like leaves. My heart beat faster when they fell.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell from the sky like snowflakes. I watched them fall, and then they fell all over the place. My grandmother had told me about these flowers before.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell like snowflakes, but they were red and blue. They flew past each other in the sky.

Before my eyes, the pile of blossoms scattered into the air. They fell from the sky like snowflakes. I watched them float away.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. His clothes were torn. He had no shoes. I watched him walk around the room. He walked past his desk, and sat on the chair next to it.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. He had been sleeping. I saw his shoes, but they were gone.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. His clothes were torn. He had no shoes. He wore nothing but his underwear. I sat by him and held his hand. We cried together for awhile.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. He had been playing with them when he fell. They were his toys. His clothes were torn up, but they still fit him well. He was very skinny, and it hurt to see him like that.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. He had been sleeping. I picked up his shoes. They felt soft against my feet.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. He had been sleeping on the ground. His clothes were torn and dirty. I went up to him and picked them up. They smelled good, like grass.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. His shoes were on the ground. He had his backpack on him. They were both gone now.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. He had been playing hide-and-seek with his friends. They were all gone now.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. He had no shoes. His clothes were torn and dirty. He was hungry, but he didn't want anything.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. His clothes were torn up. He had no shoes. His hair was matted together. I could not help but stare at him.

His belongings were scattered all over the floor. He had a blanket wrapped around him. His clothes were torn up and dirty. I could see his eyes staring out from under his hair.

The leaves scattered down around us. They were green, and they were blue. I looked up at the sky. Clouds hung over the city. A light rain fell from above.

The leaves scattered down around us. They fell from the trees. They were soft and green. We sat by them and watched them fall.

The leaves scattered down around us. They fell from the trees. I watched them fall. My eyes were full of tears as they rolled down my cheeks.

The leaves scattered down around us. They fell from the trees. The wind blew them away. I saw the moon rise over the mountains.

The leaves scattered down around us. They fell from the trees. We watched them disappear into the darkness.

The leaves scattered down around us. They fell from the trees. They danced in the wind. I watched them dance.

The leaves scattered down around us. They fell from the trees. We all laughed and cried together.

The leaves scattered down around us. They fell from the trees. I saw them fall from the sky. They were all different colors.

The leaves scattered down around us. They were green, and they fell from the trees. The wind blew them about. The sun shone brightly upon the grasses, which had yellow flowers.

The leaves scattered down around us. They were green and shiny. I saw them flutter by.

The leaves scattered down around us. They fell from the trees. We could see them all around us. I wanted to play with them, but we had no toys.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me. I could not see them anymore. A bird fell out of the sky and onto the ground. It was dead. I did not know what happened to it, but I knew that it had died.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me, but they did not fly far. I saw them flying, and then I watched them disappear.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me. I wanted them to stay close to me. I saw the sun rise over the mountains.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me. I saw them flying away as I sat on the ground.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me. My eyes fell upon a bird sitting on the window-sill. Its beak was small and round, like mine. I sat beside it and watched it for hours.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me. I could not catch them all. I saw a bird fly over the house. It was so small that it had no wings, but it seemed to be alive and fluttered around like a butterfly.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me. I saw them disappear into the trees. I walked towards the tree that held a bird feeder. A woman sat there holding food for her children. She watched me carefully as she fed the birds.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew from tree to tree. I saw them fly away, but they never came back. My heart beat fast when I watched them fly away.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me. I stared at them. They were small, but they had wings and feathers. Their eyes were bright as they watched me.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me. I could not see them anymore. They had been replaced by other things.

The birds scattered in all directions as I approached. They flew away from me. I could not catch them. I saw a tree that had no leaves on it. A man sat there, looking at the sky.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. A dog barked. I ran after it. It followed me until we found a tree to hide under. We sat there for hours, listening to the sound of the wind blowing through the trees.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. They fell from the branches. The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. They fell from the branches.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. I watched the flowers bloom. They had been so pretty when they were young. Now, they seemed sadder than ever.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. The sun shone brightly, but it was not warm enough for me. My skin burned from the heat. I had no more tears left to cry.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. They fell from the branches. I saw them fall.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. They fell from the branches, and scattered across the ground. The grass was soft and green. A small dog jumped up onto a tree branch. He licked his lips, then went back to sleep.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. I saw the sun rise from behind the mountains. It was beautiful.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. I saw the moonlight dance across the sky.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. The sun shone brightly. I stared at the flowers. They were red, purple, yellow, greenand blue!

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. A light breeze blew through the leaves. I saw a bird fly by. It looked like a blackbird, but it had wings instead of feathers.

The wind blew through the trees, scattering golden leaves everywhere. The sun shone brightly. My eyes saw the beauty of this world.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They bloomed quickly. I saw them wilt and die. The grass grew tall and green. My eyes watered when I thought about the grass.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They grew in a field. A boy sat on a bench and played with them. He had hair like roses, but his eyes were blue. His name was Charlie Brown.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They bloomed and died. Springtime is the best time of year for flowers.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They were green and yellow. I saw them for the first time in years. They smelled sweet.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They bloomed, and then they died. Spring is over now. Winter has come.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They bloomed and withered. Springtime is coming soon.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They were green and yellow. I wanted to touch them. A breeze blew through the grasses.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They were yellow and red, like roses. The flowers grew from the ground.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They were wild and beautiful. I wanted to see them all.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They were alive and vibrant. I stared at them for hours. My eyes burned from staring at them all day.

The scattered flowers reminded me of spring. They grew in the grassy fields. I watched them grow and bloom. Spring is coming soon, but why are there so many people? Why aren't they all together? What happened to everyone else?

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He said he didn't want them to be too dry. They wouldn't grow if they weren't moistened. I wanted to go back home, but I couldn't because the sky was dark and full of stars.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He said that he wanted them to grow. They had been there before, but they hadn't grown.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He didn't care if they grew or not. They were his.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He had a big garden. He planted some peas, and carrots, and corn. His wife came home from work one day, and he told her that we should go out for lunch. We went outside to eat lunch.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He said that they would grow into trees. I watched them sprout up. They grew into trees.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He said he wanted them to grow. I didn't understand what he meant.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He said that he wanted them to grow. They grew tall and strong. I watched them for hours, until they disappeared into the sky.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He said that they would grow. I wanted to know what he meant by this.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He told me that he wanted to make sure that the plants grew well. I ate some of them. They tasted good.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He said that they would grow into something good. They did.

The farmer scattered the seeds all over the ground. He said that he wanted them to grow. I thought they were very pretty. They grew fast.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are all different colors. They have no faces or eyes, just their hands reaching for you. You are pulled towards them like a magnet.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are all white, like mine. They grab your hand and pull you up. You can see them running toward the house.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are all white. You see them reaching for you. Your fingers curl around their necks and they disappear into your arms.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are all your friends. You feel safe and warm inside their arms.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are all white, like the moonlight. You hear them whisper.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are your friends. You feel safe when they hold you close.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are your parents. You know that they will not let you go. They have been watching over you all these years.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are all hungry.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are all holding your hand. You feel their warmth. They move closer to you. Their fingers curl around yours. Your heart is beating fast as they hold you close.

As you scatter the grasshoppers, a hundred hands reach out and pull you into the field. They are all different colors. You look at them, and they look back at you.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew away from each other, but they all went back to the same place.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew away from each other. A man threw his bag over them all. He thought they were too noisy to be free.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew over the trees. I watched them fly. A man came out from his house and went inside the bakery. He took bread and butter from a tin and put it into a bowl of milk.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They were so small that they could barely see their own wings.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew low. I watched them fly away from the bakery.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew away from each other. I watched them fly. The bird was small and black, like a dove.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew away from the window, but kept flying.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew away from each other. I wanted to go up there and see them all together.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew away from each other. I saw them fly away. Then they came back together again.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew away from each other. I watched them fly away.

The pigeons scattered around the baker's window. They flew away from each other. I wanted to go up to them, but they were too far away. I saw their wings and feathers, and then they disappeared.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. They hurt my feet, but they kept me from falling. My legs burned, but I didn't care. I knew that there was no place like home.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. They fell like raindrops. My legs hurt from running.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. They were soft, but firm. I knew that they belonged to someone else. My heart beat fast as I ran.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. They were soft, but they hurt my feet. I wanted to run faster, but I couldn't go any farther.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. They were soft, but they hurt. I had never been outside before. I could not see anything except the dark sky and the stars above me.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. They hurt like hell, but they didn't slow me down. I couldn't see anything, but I knew that I had to keep running.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. They weren't stones. They were sand. I fell into the river.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. I was running for the first time since before I could remember. My legs hurt from exhaustion.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. They hurt like hell, but they didn't slow me down. I had no idea what I was doing, but I knew that I wanted to run faster than the wind.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. I turned around and saw a man standing there. He had long hair that fell over his shoulders. His eyes were small, but they shone like stars. He wore a black suit and tie.

I felt the pebbles scatter under my feet as I ran. They fell like raindrops. I wanted to cry out, but didn't want to wake grandma. She had told me stories all her life.

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You saw them running around the house. They were all different colors, but they had one thing in common. Their eyes were blue.

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You ran after them. They came from everywhere. They jumped over the fence, and ran away from home.

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You sat there, and waited for them to come back. They did not return.

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You sat there looking around for them. They had been gone for hours. Then, you saw them again. A girl with red hair and blue eyes. She wore a dress that was very pretty, but it wasn't your style.

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You screamed. They scattered too. You cried. They were gone!

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You saw them all running away from the house. They had been frightened by your screams.

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You saw your mother's face in the window. She was crying. Her eyes were red and puffy from crying. She had her hands over her mouth, but I knew what she said.

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You saw them running around the house. They looked like little ants. I wanted to play with them, but I couldn't find any toys for them.

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You saw them running away from the house. They ran through the streets, and then back again. The lights in your eyes went out.

Before you could say anything, they scattered out of the room. You saw them running from the house. They ran to their cars, and drove away.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew high up into the sky. I saw them fly away from each other. One bird fell down to earth. It was small and black as ink. Its wings were short and skinny like those of a rat's tail.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew away from the house. I watched them fly away. A few of them fell onto the ground, but most of them flew up into trees.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew away from the house. A few flew back to the house. One went out into the yard and came back inside.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew away from their nests. I saw them fly. Then they came back to the trees.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew away from the house. I watched them fly away.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew high, they flew low, they ran away from me. I could not catch them.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew away from the house. I watched them fly away.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew up into the trees. A few of them fell from the branches and onto the ground. One fell on my head. I screamed and cried out for it to stop hurting me, but it didn't move.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew away from the house. A few stayed behind.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew away from the house. A flock of them landed on the porch. The door opened, and a small bird came out.

The frightened birds scattered in all directions. They flew away from the house. I saw them fly away, but they didn't leave me alone.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They fell like snowflakes. I watched them fall. I saw how they fell, and their shape.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They fluttered like butterflies. I could see them flying away from each other.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They fell like snowflakes. A dog barked from behind the tree.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They fell like snowflakes. The sun shone brightly upon them.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They fell like snowflakes. The grass swayed in the breeze.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They fell like snowflakes. I watched them fall.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They rustled like feathers. I saw them dance around the moonlight. I ran my hand through them.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They rustled as they fell. I watched them fall. The grass swayed in the breeze.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They fell like snowflakes. I stared at them. They seemed soft and warm against my skin.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They fell like snowflakes. The wind blew them away from us.

The leaves scattered across the ground in the wind. They were green, and they swayed gently. I watched them drift by. The wind blew hard, but the trees stood tall.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were old, dusty toys. I wanted them to be mine.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were not very big, but they were cute. They had been there for years. I wanted them all.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were all different shapes and sizes. I wanted them all.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were all broken. I had to pick up one. It was a stuffed toy bear that was very big for its body. I held it close to my chest and cried.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were small, but they had personalities. One toy was a little person that wore a red cap and held a hammer. He said he wanted to go home.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were small, but they had spirit. I wanted them so badly.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were so many that they covered the floor. I stood there, watching them. A toy car drove by me, and then another one did too.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were small, but they had personalities. I wanted to play with them too.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were little things that they played with. I wanted them all, but there wasn't enough room for them all.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They were small, but they had faces. Their eyes stared at me. I wanted to play with them.

The children's toys scattered all over the room. They had been playing when I came home from school.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew away from their homes. I saw them fly off into the sky.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew away from their homes. I saw them fly away from the house.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew away from each other, but they all went the same direction.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew away from each other, but they did not fly far. I saw them flying together.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew so fast that they could not stop. They flew up and down the streets. Then, one by one, they fell from the sky.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew up and down, and then they went back to their little fluttering places.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew away from their homes. They all looked so small and scared. I wanted to play with them, but they were too far away for me to reach them.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew up and down, around and over each other. A pigeon fell from the sky. It hit the ground hard. I watched as it writhed in pain before falling to the earth.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew from building to building. A few of them fell out of the sky and crashed into houses.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew so fast that they could not be caught by the man who shot them. He had no idea what he hit.

The frightened pigeons scattered themselves about the square. They flew away from their homes. Some were dead. Others were injured or sickly. A few had broken wings, and could not fly anymore. I saw one that was very small, but still alive, flying back home to its nest.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. A star twinkled above the clouds.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. I stared at them for hours. They seemed so far away from here.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. My eyes were drawn to them. They were bright and alive. I wanted to look at them all night.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. The moon shone brightly, and the stars twinkled above the trees.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. I watched them for hours. They seemed to be dancing around each other.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. The moon shone bright and clear. I saw it for what it really is; a pale, ghostly reflection of itself reflected in the water.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. The moon was full, but not too big. It shone bright enough that it seemed like you could see your breath in its light.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. I stared at them for hours. They were so bright, and the colors were so vibrant.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. The moon was shining brightly. It had been raining for hours when I saw the light, but now there was no more rain.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. I saw them all. They were small, but they seemed big to me.

It was a beautiful display of scattered stars against the velvet backdrop of the night sky. A small light shone from a distant planet. I watched it for hours.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He licked his lips. He jumped up and down and squealed.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He seemed happy. He slept. I went back home.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He didn't look sick. He just sat there looking at me. Then he jumped up and ran away.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He died.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He ran away. I had to chase him.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He had been sick for weeks. He smiled when he saw me.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He licked his lips. His eyes widened. He started licking his paws. His fur stood up and he began running around the room like a little dog that had just been given a treat.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He seemed fine. I had to leave him there for awhile.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He died. I put his body in a bag and threw it away.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He was sick for two days. Then he came back to life.

I gave him a dose of penicillin. He didn't like it. He jumped up and bit me. His teeth were sharp and black. I scratched his back until he let go of me.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She could walk around the house without being sick anymore.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She never had another one again.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She no longer had any pain. She could not sleep anymore. Her eyes glazed over, but she did not cry out or scream. She just lay there quietly.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She didn't need to wear her coat anymore. We all loved Grandma very much.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She laughed and smiled. Her eyes glowed like stars.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She had been sick for years. Her eyes were red and puffy from crying. Grandma's face was wrinkled and her nose was broken.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She felt better than ever. Her hair grew back. Her skin healed faster. She had more energy.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She was happy. She had been sick for months. Her body ached, but she felt better than ever.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She didn't need any more medicine. Her skin became smooth like silk. She no longer had a cough or fever.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She didn't need to wear her coat anymore. We all had our coats, but we never took them off together. When we went out for ice cream, Grandma always bought some from the store next door.

The dose of medicine cured Grandma's cold. She no longer had a cough. Her eyesight improved. She could see better than before.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said that if I didn't take it, then I might die. He told me that he was going to give me more medicine until I died.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said he wouldn't give me any more until I fell asleep. When I woke up, the fever had gone away.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said that if I didn't take it, I might die. He told me that he had been working for years on this drug. If I took it, he could cure me.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said he had been giving me more than usual lately. I cried when I took the medicine.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said that if I stayed here for a few days, then he could find out what was wrong with me.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said that if I didn't get better soon, he'd have to amputate my leg.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said that he had seen this before. My fever dropped. I didn't feel well, but I felt better soon after receiving the medicine.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said that if I didn't get better soon, he'd have to amputate my leg.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said that if I didn't get better within two days, he'd have to amputate my leg.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said he had no idea what kind of drug it was, but that it would help me.

The doctor gave me a dose of fever reducing medicine. He said that I should be fine for a few days.

He took his daily dose of medication. He was always calm and collected. His eyes never betrayed him. When he woke up, he was ready for work.

He took his daily dose of medication. He had a bottle of pills that he kept in his pocket. When he got hungry, he ate the pill bottles. They tasted good when they hit him.

He took his daily dose of medication. He had a big red nose. His eyes were wide open. They seemed sad.

He took his daily dose of medication. He had a big red nose. His eyes were always closed. He was very sleepy when he slept.

He took his daily dose of medication. He liked it. He had a good appetite. His eyes were red and puffy from crying. They seemed sadder than usual today.

He took his daily dose of medication. He had a dark brown fur, and he wore glasses. His eyes were bright blue. He sat by the window and watched the world go by.

He took his daily dose of medication. He had a big black nose. His eyes were red and puffy. He sat in front of me, staring at me. I wanted to talk to him, but he wouldn't look at me.

He took his daily dose of medication. He did not want to go out. His eyes had a blue glow. He sat on the floor by himself. I saw him when he was asleep, but now, he didn't move or make any noise.

He took his daily dose of medication. He didn't want to die. His eyes were red and puffy. He had a large nose that he stuck out of his face. His ears were small and pointed like a mouse's.

He took his daily dose of medication. He had a big red nose. His eyes were wide open. He was eating a banana.

He took his daily dose of medication. He didn't want to go out anymore. His eyes were red and puffy. He kept scratching himself until he bled from his nose.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he wanted to make sure that the man slept well.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he had to do this, because the man was a danger to himself. He went back inside his house.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he had to take them because there was a fire burning in the hospital. He put the patient's hand over his eyes, and told him not to look out the window.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he'd give him more later. The man woke up. His eyes widened, and his mouth gaped open. "What happened?" he asked.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he had to make sure that the patient did not have any more dreams. The man fell asleep.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he had some more that he wanted to give him. He took out a bottle and handed it to the man. The man opened it up and drank from it.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he had been having trouble sleeping lately. He wanted to get some rest before his next appointment.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he wanted to be sure that the man did not have any more dreams about his past. The man woke up.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he had to give them to everyone. The man was sleepy, but still awake. He sat up from his chair.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he had been sick for a while now. He wanted to rest.

The doctor gave the patient a dose of sleeping pills. He said he didn't want to wake him up. He took his place by the fire. I watched him for awhile, but he wasn't there anymore.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You have three days. Take this tablet. If you don't take it by then, your body will die from the infection.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You will have to go back home.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You can't afford not to.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You have no choice but to go back home.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You can't afford not to.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You will be fine.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You can't afford not to.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You have no choice but to go to the doctor. He will prescribe you a dosage. Go back home and get your mom's medicine box from under her dresser. Take out the pills that are labeled "penicillin".

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You will have to go to the pharmacy.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You will be able to find it at the pharmacy.

You need to take a dose of penicillin to combat the infection. You will be able to cure yourself if you take the pill.

I took a dose of the sleeping medicine before bed. I fell asleep. When I woke up, it was morning. My eyes hurt when they opened. They were red and swollen from crying.

I took a dose of the sleeping medicine before bed. I fell asleep. When I woke up, it was morning.

I took a dose of the sleeping medicine before bed. I fell asleep. I dreamed about you. You came into my room, and sat next to me on the bed. We held hands and talked for hours. Then we kissed each other and went back to sleep together.

I took a dose of the sleeping medicine before bed. I fell asleep. When I woke up, I had forgotten everything. My face was red and swollen from crying. A man came into the room and sat next to me.

I took a dose of the sleeping medicine before bed. I slept for hours. When I woke up, I saw that it had been morning all along.

I took a dose of the sleeping medicine before bed. I slept for hours. When I woke up, I was in a new place. A man stood by me, holding my hand. He said he was from the future. He told me about his family and how they lived then.

I took a dose of the sleeping medicine before bed. I slept well that night.

I took a dose of the sleeping medicine before bed. I slept like a baby.

I took a dose of the sleeping medicine before bed. I slept like a log. My eyes opened. A light shone from the window. It was very bright out there.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. It felt like my throat burned. My eyes stung. I had a headache. I could not breathe well, but I did not feel sick or anything else bad about myself.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. I felt fine. I ate some food that had been sitting out for days. My stomach hurt, but not like when I'd eaten something before.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. It felt like the air was burning in my lungs. I could smell the medicine in the air. I wanted to cry out, but couldn't breathe.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. It felt like a warm blanket was wrapped around me. I could smell the flowers, and grasses, and trees. I fell asleep immediately after taking the pill.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. I had no reaction. I felt fine for the rest of the day.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. It felt like a cool wind blew over my face. I could smell the flowers in the air. My eyes burned, but they didn't hurt anymore.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. I felt better immediately.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. It felt like being hit by a truck. My skin burned, but not as much as when I had eaten the chocolate chip cookie.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. It felt like a rock hit my stomach. My eyes burned. I had no idea what was happening.

I took one dose of my allergy medication. It felt like my body had been burned by fire. My skin began to itch. I wanted to cry out, but no tears came.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. My stomach hurt like hell. I felt sick, but I had to go back home.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. I could not swallow pills or capsules.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. My throat felt tight.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. I didn't swallow too much because I wanted to see if there was any difference. The liquid tasted like honey.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. I felt like I had been drinking water all day. My stomach hurt, but not bad enough to throw up.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. I could feel the strength leaving my body. My eyes opened wide. A man walked by, but he didn't look back. He just continued walking away from me.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. My stomach hurt like hell. I had to go back home.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. My throat felt tight. I drank some more water. The liquid tasted sweet, but there was something else about it that made me gag.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. The water tasted like sweet tea. I drank it down.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. It tasted sweet. I watched the sun set over the ocean.

I took my dose of cough syrup and swallowed it with a gulp of water. I had no idea what it was. I just knew that it wasn't sugar.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew pictures of his friends. His drawings were pretty good, but he could do better.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew pictures of trees, houses, flowers and people.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew his friends. They were all different people, but they had the same face. His eyes were wide open, he smiled happily.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew a lot of pictures of trees and flowers. His drawings were lovely.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew his friends, and himself. His drawings were very good. They were like paintings, but they had more detail than paintings.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew pictures of his friends, and his family.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew pictures of trees, animals, flowers, people. Sometimes he drew pictures that were scary. They scared him.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew pictures of flowers, trees, and people. He drew them all so well that he could make anything look real. I wanted to be like him one day.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew pictures of trees, and flowers. His drawings were beautiful.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew pictures of his friends, but he never did any drawings of himself. His drawing was always about others.

He loved to draw everyday, it was a daily does of happiness for him. He drew pictures of flowers, trees, people, animalshe had such a good imagination. Sometimes he would paint them all over his room.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We all sat together and took our pills. My hand touched your face. You smelled nice.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We all sat around the fire. Grandma told us stories about her times. She always said that she loved us, but we didn't love her back. That's why she died.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We were thirsty. I drank some water from the river. The water tasted sweet.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We took it together. When we were done, I felt better than ever. My mother came out from the kitchen. She smiled at me, and then went back inside.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We could get sick if we didn't. Grandma said that there was no need for worry. She said that the medicine would make us stronger than any monster or beast.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We waited for hours. When we got home, Grandma sat me on her lap and told me stories. She held my hand tightly as she talked about the world outside our house.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. I wanted to see the world. We walked through the woods for hours. My eyes burned like fire, but I could not stop looking at things that caught my eye.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We couldn't have any more babies.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We sat around the campfire. Grandma told us stories about her days growing up. She sang songs to us, and we listened intently.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We couldn't go back home. The house was too far away. I cried for Grandma. She didn't cry.

We had to take another dose of the medicine. We took one pill each. Grandma told us not to eat anything but grass for three days after we ate the pills. She said that if we didn't get sick, then it wasn't poison.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He opened his mouth wide, and let out a yell. His eyes bulged open. He had a big grin on his face. Then he fell over backwards onto the floor.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He lay there for awhile, but then he opened his eyes. He smiled at me. I thought about him all day.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He stood up from the chair. His eyes were red and puffy. He put his hand against his mouth and began to cry. Tears rolled down his cheeks.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He had a big belly. His face was wrinkled. His eyes were red. His mouth was blue.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He had a face like a tree. His beard was gray and he wore glasses. He sat by the fire, holding his pipe.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He fell asleep. His eyes opened wide. They were full of tears. He held them tightly closed.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He fell to the floor. His eyes were red and puffy. He sat up, but he didn't move. He stood up slowly, then slowly again until he lay back down on the couch.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He felt better immediately. His face became more wrinkled, but he didn't seem sick anymore.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He was quiet. He had a smile on his face.

The old man took a dose of his medicine and swallowed it. He fell asleep. His eyes opened wide. They stared out into the darkness, and then he slept again.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They were like little stars. They went inside my head. I felt so happy when they went in.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They tasted like apples. My eyes closed. I felt lightheaded.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They felt good. They smelled nice too. I went back home.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They tasted like strawberries. I drank them all up.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They tasted sweet. My body felt light. I saw the sky. It was blue, like the sky outside my window.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They felt good. I could see stars. My eyes hurt when they closed, but then opened again quickly.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They tasted like cherry pie. They felt good, but they didn't do anything for me.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They tasted like candy. My eyes felt heavy as I fell asleep.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They tasted like candy. They didn't taste bad, but they weren't good for you.

I took a dose of the little blue pills. They tasted like candy. I felt happy.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He had a big bookcase full of books. I wanted to read one of them, but he wouldn't let me touch it.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He liked to play games with us. We played hide-and-seek, and he hid things in our pockets.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He would play games with us. We loved his games. They were fun and exciting.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He loved them all. He would play games, read books, watch movies, make up storieshe enjoyed everything he did.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He had many toys that he could play with. One day, he went outside to play.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He loved them all.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He loved to read stories. One day he told me that one of them was about a boy who lived in a house. The story had pictures, too.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He loved them all, but he liked watching the sun set over the ocean. He had a favorite spot there.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He had to go outside every once in awhile to play. I watched him play. Sometimes he played with his friends, but sometimes they fought over who got to be the king.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He liked to play games with us. We played hide-and-seek, he hid things in our pockets, we found them, then he had us find more hidden objects.

It was a dose of activities for Grandfather to keep him occupied and happy. He had a bucket of peaches. He put them in a bag. Then he took his pick and threw the peach into the air, which fell to earth.

She needed a dose of good news to cheer her up. She had been reading a book when I came home from school. Her eyes lit up when she saw me.

She needed a dose of good news to cheer her up. She sat by the fire and read the paper. A little boy came out from his house. He said he had a new toy for her. It was a small, red car.

She needed a dose of good news to cheer her up. She had two pills that would make her feel better. One pill would take away all the bad things that happened to her. The other pill would make everything okay again.

She needed a dose of good news to cheer her up. She went out into the yard and found a bird that sang sweetly. It flew over her head and down to the ground.

She needed a dose of good news to cheer her up. She picked out a bottle of pills from the medicine cabinet. She took one, and then another, and another. Then she had two bottles of pills. They didn't work for her; they just made her feel worse.

She needed a dose of good news to cheer her up. She thought about how she had been dreaming that we lived in a house. We could go out into the garden and play. She wanted to see what it felt like to be outside again.

She needed a dose of good news to cheer her up. She had been working hard all day. Her boss told her that he was hiring someone else. He said they could get another one tomorrow or next week, but not now.

She needed a dose of good news to cheer her up. She had a lot of them. A man came to visit her one day. He was tall and handsome, but he didn't look like his picture on the newspaper.

She needed a dose of good news to cheer her up. She went out to get some milk for her cow. When she returned, she found that the cow had died. Her face became sadder than usual.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We did not want to make anyone sick. I felt like I could fly when we gave the medicine.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We had to wait for the effects to take effect. When we gave the medicine, I felt like I could fly. My heart beat faster. I wanted to go out and play.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We needed to wait for the effects to take effect. When we gave the medicine, there was no need for us to scream or yell. We just listened carefully.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We took turns. When we gave the medicine, I felt like I could fly. My eyes were clear and bright. They shone brightly when they met yours.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We couldn't rush it. It would be better if we waited for the effect to take place. When I woke up, I felt very tired. My eyes hurt when they opened.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We did not want to make you sick. You could have a bad reaction if we gave it too fast.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We had to wait for the children to be quiet enough that we could do it.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We didn't want to make you sick. The medicine was very strong. I watched the shadows dance in the moonlight. They danced around each other, and then they began to move together as one.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We waited for a while. Then we gave the medicine. I saw a man who was sicker than myself. He had no hair on his head, but he wore a hat that covered most of his face.

We had to give the dose of the medicine slowly. We took the medicine from the jar. I could smell it in my mouth. It smelled like honey and flowers.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. I watched the sky. The moon was so bright that it hurt my eyes. It was a beautiful sight.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. I saw a man standing over me. He had a beard and wore a black suit. His eyes were cold. He said nothing, but stared at me for hours. When he was done, he left without looking at me again.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. My eyes closed. I could hear the wind blowing outside.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. The sun came up over the mountains. I saw the stars twinkle. I slept for hours.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. I slept for hours.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. The sun shone brightly. I could see the sky clearly. I lay there for hours, listening to the sounds of nature.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. I fell asleep. A dream came over me. I saw a man holding a gun to my head. He said, "You have killed many people today." He pulled the trigger, but nothing happened.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. My eyes closed. I slept for hours. When I woke up, there was no one here but me and my grandmother. She held me close to her chest.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. My mother came up from behind me. She put her hand over my mouth and whispered something into it's ear. I didn't understand what she said, but I knew that if I told anyone, they'd hurt her.

I took my dose of medicine and laid back down. I fell asleep. My eyes opened up and saw a bright light. Then, I woke up.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He fell asleep, but didn't sleep very well. When he woke up, he said that the sky was blue. Jake's eyes were like saucers. They glowed with a white light when they blinked.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He fell asleep. When he woke up, he had no pain. His eyes were wide open.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He yawned. His eyes were red. They stared at me as he slept.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He fell asleep. When he woke up, he had a headache. Jake's head hurt like hell when he slept.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He slept soundly until morning. Then he woke up, and went out for some food. When he came back home, he said that he had been walking around town all day, looking for something.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He fell asleep. When he woke up, he went back to sleep.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He slept soundly. When he woke up, he was very hungry. He ate some food that grandma had given him for dinner. Jake smiled when he saw how happy his mommy was making him look.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He woke up early. His eyes were red and swollen. Jake's nose was bleeding. His mouth had a sore taste.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He fell asleep. I watched him sleep.

Jake took a dose of his cold medicine before bed. He lay there, breathing heavily. His eyes were closed. I sat beside him and watched him sleep.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They felt like they helped me sleep better. I took them all before bedtime. I didn't feel sleepy until after dinner.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They were called "Glow-in-the-Dark." I saw a bright light. It was like looking at the sun for the first time.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They were called "Cherry" and they were supposed to help me sleep. When I took them, I felt like I could go to sleep forever.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They were called "Green Tea." I drank them all day. My stomach hurt when I ate food. The pills didn't help at all.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They were supposed to help you sleep better. I took them because they said it would make me feel more relaxed.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They tasted good. I drank them all up. My stomach hurt when I ate.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They were called "Tiger's Blood." I felt like I could run faster than a cheetah. My eyes burned bright red. My hair stood up on end. It hurt when I laughed or cried.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They helped me sleep. I fell asleep for a few minutes, but then woke up again.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They were called "Cannabis." I felt like I could fly. My eyesight was perfect.

I had taken a dose of herbal supplements that morning. They gave me energy and kept me from feeling tired. I felt like I could do anything.

I strained to see something in the darkness. A man stood before me. He wore a white robe. His face was pale, like mine. I could not make out his eyes, but he seemed sadder than usual.

I strained to see something in the darkness. I saw a tiny figure sitting by the fire. He had a candle in his hand. His eyes were black and red, like mine.

I strained to see something in the darkness. A man sat by himself in a dark room. He had no clothes on. His face was pale, his eyes wide and sad. I saw him looking at me.

I strained to see something in the darkness. I saw a light. A star. It shone bright and white. I wanted to touch it, but the moonlight was too strong for me.

I strained to see something in the darkness. I saw a man's face. He had dark hair, and he wore a black suit. His eyes were small, but they burned like fire.

I strained to see something in the darkness. I saw a man sitting by the fire. He wore a black suit, and his hair was black too. His eyes were blue. He had a white beard that went up to his waist.

I strained to see something in the darkness. I saw a man holding a lantern. He held the light so that he could read his book. The moonlight shone on him like gold upon snow.

I strained to see something in the darkness. A light shone from above. I saw a bright star, shining brightly. I knew that there was no moon tonight.

I strained to see something in the darkness. A man sat in front of me. He wore a hat, and his face was white. His eyes were black, but they seemed to be looking at me. My heart beat fast when he spoke to me.

I strained to see something in the darkness. I saw a man. He had short hair, and he wore a black suit. His eyes were dark as well. He held a gun in his hand, but he didn't shoot you.

I strained to see something in the darkness. A man stood there. He wore a black suit, and had a big nose. His eyes were like two burning stars.

I strained to hear something in the silence. I could not see anything, but I knew that there must be something out there. Something alive. My heart beat faster as I waited for something to come back.

I strained to hear something in the silence. A bird flew over the trees. I watched it fly, and then turned away from the sky.

I strained to hear something in the silence. A bird flew over the trees. I watched it for a moment. Then, I saw its body disappear into the darkness.

I strained to hear something in the silence. I could not see anything. My eyes were closed. I felt like I was floating above the ground.

I strained to hear something in the silence. A bird flew past. I could not see what it was doing there, but I knew that it had been there before.

I strained to hear something in the silence. I could not see anything. My eyes felt like they were full of sand. I saw a man's face staring back at me from behind a tree. He had dark hair and wore glasses. His mouth opened, but he did not speak.

I strained to hear something in the silence. A bird sang from far away. I could not see it well, but I knew that it was there.

I strained to hear something in the silence. A bird flew by. I saw its black feathers flutter against the sky. I wanted to run after it, but there was nothing else around me.

I strained to hear something in the silence. I could not see anything. My eyes felt like they were full of sand. I thought about how much I had been hurt today. How many times? What did that mean? Why couldn't I stop myself from hurting people?

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. One day, they snapped. The bridge collapsed into the river. A man was killed when he fell from the bridge onto a boat that had been anchored below it.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. They break. Sometimes they don't even notice when one breaks until it is too late. This bridge has been around for a very long time. The steel that holds it up has been there longer than I have been alive.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. They're always being pulled by people who want to cross them. Some people try to push back against the pullers, but they don't have enough strength. Others just give up and let go.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. They break sometimes. One day, one broke. A bridge collapsed in the city of Klyton. The bridge fell into a ravine. People were trapped underneath the bridge when it fell into the ravine.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. Sometimes they break. When that happens, people die. In this story, there is a bridge over a river. A man falls from the bridge onto the other side of the river.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. One day, one broke. The bridge fell into the river. I watched as it sank into the water. A man jumped from the bridge, but he drowned when his body hit the bottom of the river.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. One day, they snapped. A few people died. I saw the bridge collapse. People screamed and fell down the stairs. They cried out for help, but no one came.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. One day, they snapped. A bridge collapsed. People died. I saw people die.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. They break, or they bend. One day, one broke. A bridge collapsed into the river below. People swam across the river to escape death. The people were so scared that they didn't know what to do next.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. Sometimes they break. A man called William McNeil lived near the bridge that broke. He had been working on it for years, but he couldn't fix it.

Steel cables holding up bridges are constantly under a lot of strain. One day, one broke. Water flooded into the city. People drowned. I saw people drown.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes were blurry. I saw a man holding a torch. He held the torch close to his face, but he could not hold it out from my eye.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes widened when I saw that it was not there. A shadow covered me. It crept up behind me, and took my hand.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes saw a black spot. I could not see anything else. I thought about how my father had told me that darkness is nothing but shadows.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes burned like fire. I could not make out anything else around me except darkness.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes were sore from looking at them for so long. I tried to make out shapes in the darkness.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes were very tired. They felt like they had been crying for days. I could not sleep, but I did not want to leave them alone either.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes were heavy. I saw the moonlight. I was hungry, but I couldn't eat anything until after nightfall.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes were too big for this darkness. I could not see anything except the shadows that surrounded me.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes found each other. They smiled at each other. I felt like crying.

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes were too big for this darkness. I had to get out of here!

I strained to see my hand in front of my face in the dark. My eyes burned like fire. I had no idea what I saw.

I strained to hear any sound at all. All I could see was darkness. I tried to move my eyes, but they wouldn't open. My eyelids felt heavy and heavy as they closed over me.

I strained to hear any sound at all. I saw no light in the sky. The sun was low, and there was nothing but darkness around me. I had been alone for too long.

I strained to hear any sound at all. I could not see anything. My eyes felt like they were full of sand. I wanted to cry out, but there was nothing that came from within me.

I strained to hear any sound at all. I could not see anything. My eyes were closed. I felt cold air blow against my face. A dark cloud hung over everything.

I strained to hear any sound at all. All that could be heard was the wind blowing. I tried to look out the window, but there was nothing in sight.

I strained to hear any sound at all. I saw nothing but darkness. I knew that if I could see anything, then I must be dreaming.

I strained to hear any sound at all. A man sat on the porch. He wore a white shirt and pants. His face was dirty and his eyes were red. I saw him run up the stairs to his house.

I strained to hear any sound at all. A bird flew by. It was so small that I could not see its face. The sky was blue, and the sun shone brightly.

I strained to hear any sound at all. I saw nothing but darkness. I heard no noise at all.

I strained to hear any sound at all. I could not see anything, but I knew that something was there.

I strained to hear any sound at all. I could not see anything. My eyes had been closed for many years. A light came from above. It was warm, but cool at the same time. The sun shone bright upon the world, and gave everything color.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He cried out. I sat by him and held his hand. He wiped his tears from his eyes.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He couldn't move fast enough. I sat next to him and held his hand.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He had no strength left to move. His eyes were wide open, and he was staring at me.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He had no legs. He could not walk. His body was too big for him to be able to move forward or backward.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He cried out for help.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He fell onto the floor. His eyes were red and swollen. He had a big bump on his head.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He sat on the floor and cried. A woman came out from under the house. She had a baby in her arms.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He fell to the floor. I sat by him and held his hand. He rubbed his eyes and yawned. His tongue was black and blue as he licked my fingers.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He cried out, "I'm sorry." I asked him if he wanted to play. He said yes. We played for hours together.

He tried to lift the heavy box but stained his back. He stood there for a while, looking sad. Then he went away.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too many hours watching TV will cause the mind to be tired. Too much time playing games can lead to boredom.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too many screens can cause headaches. I should look at books or the stars instead.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too many screens can cause headaches. I want to be alone for awhile.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too many books can be boring. I want to read something new.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too much time playing games will tire the mind. A game is a place for relaxation.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too many screens can cause eye strain. A screen should be placed away from the face.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too much time staring at a person will make you feel uncomfortable. So, I look away from the screen and stare at the floor.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too many books can be tiresome. A book is like a friend. You should read the pages you are reading before you put them away.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too much time sitting on a chair will strain the back. Too much time reading books will strain the mind.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too many books can be tiresome. A book is a tool for learning. If you don't learn something from a book, then you are not reading the right thing.

Too much time looking at a computer will strain the eyes. Too much time sitting on a chair will strain the back. Too many books can make you sleepy. A book is too heavy for your hands to hold, and you cannot read very well without resting them against something.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. The sun had set. I sat by the fire, and watched the stars shine.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. My mother said that it was too hot out there today. She told me to go back inside and stay warm.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. I felt cold. My body ached. I wanted to lie down and sleep, but there was no place to go.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. My heart pounded. I had never felt this way before.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. I lay awake all night. When morning came, I found that the sun had risen.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. I lay awake all night. When morning came, I found that the sun had risen.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. I sat up from my sleeping bag. I watched the stars come out. They were beautiful.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. The sun had set.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. My eyes hurt. I had no idea what time it was.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. I sat on the ground and watched the stars. They seemed so big when they shone upon me.

I strained to hear sounds outside my tent, but nothing could be heard. I tried to see out of the tent, but there was no light. My eyes burned from looking at them all day.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. I can't see anything. I am lost in the darkness.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. My eyes are wide open. I am hungry. I want to eat something. Something warm, soft, and sweet.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. I can't see anything. A light shines from the sky. It's blue, like the moon.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. A man walks along the road. He stops beside a house. He opens the door, and steps inside.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. I feel like I am being watched. I can't sleep.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. I look around, and see nothing. A man walks by. He wears a suit, and has a tie hanging from his neck. His hair is gray and curly like mine.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. My eyes are tired from staring. I close them.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. I am lost in the darkness.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. My eyes are closed. I am dreaming.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. My eyes are wide open. I am lost in this world.

I strain to hear a sound, but there is only silence. I am afraid. My heart beats fast, and I feel sick.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. I see nothing but stars. I am lost in the sky.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. My eyes are tired from staring at the dark. I hear a noise outside. A dog barks loudly. I stare out the window, and see nothing but blackness.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. My eyes are tired from staring at the wall for hours. I have no idea what is happening.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. I see a light coming from behind the door. I open it. A man is standing there. He looks like he's about to cry, but then he smiles and says hello.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. My eyes are wide open. I can see nothing but blackness. A shadow fell over me.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. My eyes are heavy. I want to sleep.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. A man is standing by the window. He looks tired, like he hasn't slept for days.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. I look around for something. My eyes are tired from looking at the sky all day. I reach out to touch the ground. The earth is cold, but not icy cold.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. My eyes are heavy. I can't see anything. I feel like I'm falling asleep.

I strain to hear any sounds in the darkness. A man's voice is calling out to me. He says he loves me. He asks if I want to go home. I say yes, but only because there are no other homes here.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. All I could hear was silence. Then, I heard a sound that sounded like laughter. A woman laughed, and then her laugh turned to tears. She cried for joy when she saw me standing there.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything. My eyes felt heavy. A light wind blew across the grassy field.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything out of place. A squirrel scurried along the ground. It was so quiet that I thought it had disappeared.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. A light breeze blew. I could not see anything, but I knew there was something out there. Something that wanted to play with me.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. The sky was dark, but I could see stars. They twinkled like diamonds. I saw a small, round moon shining bright in the darkness.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. Then, I saw something bright in the darkness. A light shone from behind a bush. I followed it to see what it was.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything. I saw nothing but darkness. Then, something came from behind me. It was a black shadow that walked quickly along the wall.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. All was quiet.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything. My eyes were tired from staring at the sky for hours. I saw a small black dog that sat by itself near the corner of the house.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything. I sat on the floor and listened. A mouse squeaked, but I did not understand what it said.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. No sound came from anywhere.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything, but the wind blew. I felt like I had been here before.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything, but I knew there had to be something out here. Something that could help me find my mommy.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything. My eyes were tired from staring at the sky for hours. The trees swayed gently in the wind.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. My eyes were tired from staring at the trees. I opened them wide for one last look at the sky.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything. My eyes felt heavy and tired. I sat by the fire. I watched the flames dance around the logs.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. A dog barked. Then, a cat howled. Finally, there was silence.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything out of place. Everything seemed quiet.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. A few seconds later, I heard something. It sounded like a voice.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I saw no one there. I lay on the floor and listened for the sound of a cat.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. Nothing happened. I could not believe that nothing had happened. I thought about how everything around me seemed so quiet.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I saw nothing but darkness. A light shone from behind the trees. The moonlight illuminated the scene.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. My heart beat fast. I could not wait for sleep. I wanted to see the world.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything, but I knew there must be something out there.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything out there. All around me was darkness.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything out the window. I sat on the floor and listened to listen for something. I heard nothing but silence.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. No one came out from under the house. I climbed up the ladder and peered inside. The moon shone brightly, and I could see that there was no one inside.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. Nothing came from the woods. I sat by the fire and watched the flames dance. They danced around me like a woman's dress.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. No sound came from the house. I knew that if there was anyone inside, they must be sleeping.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I saw nothing but darkness. Then, I heard something. A low, rumbling sound that seemed to come from everywhere and nowhere at once.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. A dog barked. I could not see what kind of animal it was, but I knew that it had to be a big one.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything, but I knew something was there. A man stood by the window. He had a big beard and wore a black cloak.

I strained my ears to hear any sounds of movement. I could not see anything out my window. My eyes were tired from staring at the sun for too long.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. They had been burning coal for years. I saw them burn wood. The fire burned bright and hot.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. They had a big fire in the fireplace. I watched them cook meat and vegetables together. The smell was wonderful.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. The fire burned bright, but it was cold. I could see the light in your eyes. You lit the candle and held it high for me to gaze upon you.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. They were huge, but they were cooking food for people. I saw them cook meat and vegetables. The smell was delicious.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. They were so big that they could be seen for miles. I saw them. The smoke smelled sweet and strong.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. They were big, and blackened the sky. I watched them cook. Their food smelled delicious. I wished that one day, I could eat something like this for dinner.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. They were always cooking something. I saw them cook meat over the fire. They had a big pot of stew. I wanted some, but I didn't have any money for food.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. I saw the fireflies dance. They danced like stars in the sky. I wanted to see them again.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. They burned food that smelled good. I saw them cook meat on the stove. The smell was wonderful.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. They smelled delicious. I watched them cook for hours. I wanted to be one of those people who could eat all that food without feeling hungry or full.

The smoke trailed from the chimneys as they cooked. They were old, and had been cooking for generations. The fire burned bright, and lit up the room. A man sat by the hearth, smoking his pipe. He stared out at the world.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. They walked along the trail. I watched them from afar.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. I saw the sun rise and set. The sky was blue, and the clouds were white.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. We walked along the trail for hours. My eyes grew tired from looking at the sun all day.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. A deer came out from behind a rock. It stopped in front of us. The deer looked like a beautiful creature, but its eyes were red and swollen shut. Its legs were skinny and weak, and it had no tail.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. We stopped by a lake. A little girl sat on the bank of the lake and told us stories about her family. She held our hands. Her eyes were blue like mine, but different from any other's I'd ever seen.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. I saw a flock of blackbirds flying overhead. They were so pretty, they made me feel happy.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. The sun was hot. We walked along the trail. A man came up from behind us. He had a hat pulled low over his eyes. His hair was gray and matted with sweat.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. The sun was high in the sky. A light breeze blew through the trees.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. The sun was shining brightly. I saw the sky and felt its warmth. I wanted to go home.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. I saw a bear, and a deer. They were both very big, but they seemed small compared to the sun.

The went walking on a mountain trail for the day. The route offered great views. We saw the moonlight dance across the mountains.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. They led to a cave. I followed them.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. They led to a small stream. I could see the light from the moon shining through them.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. They led up a hill. I followed them. When we reached the top, there was a cave entrance. We walked inside.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. They led to a cave. A light shone inside the cave. The sun was shining brightly, but it seemed cold.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. They led to a cave. I followed them. There was a ladder leading up the wall. I climbed up it. When I reached the top, there was another ladder leading down into darkness.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. They led to a cave. I could see the light from inside the cave. The light was red, like blood.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. They led up the hill. I followed them. As I walked along, they became more distinct. At first, there were just small rocks. Then, there were large boulders. Finally, there were trees and bushes.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. I followed the trail. It led me to a place called the "Garden." I saw trees, and flowers. They had leaves like roses, but they were red instead of white. The flowers smelled sweet.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. I followed it. The path led to a tree. A small bird flew past the tree. It seemed to be sadder than usual, like it wanted something very bad.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. I followed the trail. The path led to a tree. A large tree, but not very big. The tree had leaves like a pine. The branches were red and green, like grass.

There was a trail of stones that showed the way. I followed it. A man sat by a fire. He had a big beard and wore a robe. His eyes were like two burning stars.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. I saw a light ahead. It seemed like it led somewhere.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. I followed it for miles. Finally, after days, I saw a light. It was a candle that burned out quickly. When the flame died down, there was nothing but darkness again.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. I saw a man standing by a tree. He had dark hair and wore a black suit. His eyes were bright blue, but his face was pale and wrinkled.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. It led into a wooded area. I followed the trail until it disappeared. A man sat by a fire, holding his head in his hands. He wore an old coat that smelled like smoke and oil.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. A dog barked from behind me. He growled and walked faster than any human could run.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. I saw a man sitting by a fire. He had a hat on his head, but he wore no shirt or pants. His arms were wrapped around himself, and he was crying.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. It led away from the house. I followed it for what seemed like hours. Then, I saw the light ahead of me. A little light shone out from behind a tree. It was coming toward me!

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. I saw a man standing by the tree. He had a bow and arrow. His face was dirty and his hair was unkempt. He wore a dark green tunic that covered him from head to toe.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. I could see a light coming from behind the trees. I followed it. It led me to a house. A man sat inside the door, holding his head in pain. He held a cane in one hand and a rag in another.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. I could see the moonlight from above. A little girl's voice called out to me. She said that if I followed her, then I would find what I wanted.

I tried to follow the faint trail up ahead. I saw a light in the distance. I followed it. It led me to a house. A man stood outside, holding his hands out for me to pick something up from behind him.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. A man is sitting by the fire. He looks tired. His face has a scar that runs across his cheek. He wears a dark blue suit and tie, and he holds a cigarette in one hand.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. A man is sitting by the fire. He looks like he's been crying. He has a small wooden box in his hands. His eyes are red and puffy from crying.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. A man is sitting by the fire. He looks tired. His eyes are red and puffy from crying.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. A man is sitting by the fire. He has a knife in his hand. His eyes are closed, but he's watching you. You're scared, because you don't know what to do next.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. A man is sitting by the fire. He has long hair and wears a robe. His eyes are closed, but he looks sleepy.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. The fire is small. It burns low. My mother sits by the fire and tells me stories. She has a big brown face, and her eyes are blue like mine.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. I saw a man holding a torch. He lit his pipe, and blew smoke out of it. His face was pale as he stared at the fire.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. A man is sitting by the fire. He has a large hat on his head. His face looks pale and wrinkled. He holds a small knife in one hand, and he holds another object in his other hand.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. The fire is small, but it burns hot. The fire has been burning for days now. A man sits by the campfire, holding a knife. He looks tired and dirty.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. A man is sitting by the fire. He has long hair that falls past his shoulders. His face looks like he's been crying for days.

A trail of smoke leads to the campfire. A man is sitting by the fire. He is wearing a black suit and tie. His face looks pale and his eyes are red from crying.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. I could smell the scent of grass. A cloud passed by, and I saw that it was a rainbow.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A fire burned inside the house. I saw that the flames danced around the hearth. They seemed to be dancing in a circle.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A fire burned in the fireplace. The flames danced around the hearth. I watched them for hours.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A fire burned in the fireplace. The flames danced.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A fire burned high up in the sky. I saw a man sitting by the fire. He had a big beard and wore a cloak. His eyes were red like blood, but his face was smooth and handsome.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A fire burned in the middle of the forest. I watched it for hours.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A fire burned inside the house. Grandma had cooked dinner for us all that day. She fed us well.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A fire burned there. The flame flickered brightly. I watched it for awhile, then went back to sleep.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A fire burned in the forest. The flames danced around the flame.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A man had lit a fire. He sat by the campfire, his back against the wall of the tent. His face was covered with a fur hat. His eyes were closed.

A trail of smoke drifted lazily into the sky. A fire burned in the forest. I watched as it flickered and flared.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You will find a log cabin. Inside, you will see a man sitting in front of his fire. He is wearing a hat and a coat.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You will find a small wooden box. Inside is a note from your father. He said he was sorry for all the times you had hurt him. He wrote that if you ever needed anything, just ask.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You can find out more about the boy who lives there.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You will find a small fire, some blankets, and a bottle of whiskey.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You can see a small, white tent. A man sits inside the tent. He is dressed in a red robe. His face is pale and his eyes are black.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You will find the campfire. Follow the trail until you reach it.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You will find a man there who is looking for you. He has been missing for days.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You'll find a large campfire. A man is sitting there, holding a spear. He's very tall, and wears armor. His face is pale and his eyes are black.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You will find your way there.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You will find a large, red tent. It is made of cotton canvas. Inside the tent are three men. They wear blue shirts and black pants.

You can follow the trail to the camp. You can find the campfire. It is a small fire, but you will be able to see the light from it.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We didn't know what had happened to the other hikers. A few days later, we found our way again.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We could not find our way back home. I thought about how we had been here before. How many times?

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We followed the river. It was dark and murky. We couldn't see each other anymore.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We couldn't find our way back home.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We followed the river. It flowed like a rainbow. When we came across a bridge, we jumped over it. I could see the sky above us, and there was no place to go but up.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We couldn't find our way back home. We thought we had died and gone to heaven.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We wandered for hours. We found a tree that had a hole in it. A man sat inside the tree. He wore no clothes, and his face was covered by a black hoodie.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We had no food or water. We could hear people talking about us. They said we should come back home.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We didn't know what had happened to the people who came before us.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We wandered for hours. Eventually, we found a small stream that flowed into a pond. We sat by the pond and watched the water flow over rocks.

We tried to follow the hiking trail, but we got lost. We found a nice place to sleep. My eyes were tired from staring at the stars. I wanted to rest my head against something soft.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. A man lived there. He had a dog by his side. The man's name was George.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. I climbed up the tree to see what had happened. A man sat by a fire. He held a candle in his hand, and he was laughing. His face was red and swollen from laughter.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. A man had been trapped inside for years. He had no idea how he got there. Sometimes, he would scream out, but nobody could hear him.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. A man had carved his name in the stone wall. He sat there alone, staring out at the forest. I saw him from afar, but he did not notice me.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. In the cave sat a small animal. It had short legs and a round body. Its eyes were black, but its nose was red. It wore no clothes.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. A light shone inside. I saw the moonlight shine upon a man sitting there. He had a red beard and wore a green robe. His eyes were like two burning stars, but they seemed to be looking at something else instead of me.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. I could hear the sound of water inside. I followed the trail. When I reached the bottom, there was a hole in the ground. A light shone from within.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. I climbed up the ladder to see what was inside. A large, black rat scurried out from behind a rock. It crawled over to me.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. A man lived there. He had a black beard and wore a black robe. He sat by his fire, reading a book. His eyes were closed, but he knew what I was thinking about.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. A man lived there. He had a big beard and wore a robe. He sat by his fire, reading a book. His eyes were like two burning stars that shone out from the pages of the book.

The trail in the woods led to a dark cave. A man lived there. He had a dog by his side. The man said he was looking for something.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from here. It's just a dirt path that leads up to the tree line.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from your house. The well has been there for generations. I have seen people come out of the well. They are all dead now, but they will be again soon.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from here. When you are older, you will know what I mean.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from your house. You walk along the path until you reach the well. It's not very deep, but it's wide enough for two people to stand side by side without touching each other.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from your house. It's a white line that goes out from the well. It leads you to the river.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from your house. If you walk along the road, you will find that there are two paths leading to the well. One path leads up the hillside; the other goes around behind your house.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from your house. If you follow it, you will find the well. You are tired now; you want to sleep.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from here. It leads up to the hillside. A small stream flows past the well.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from here. A small stream flows by. You have never seen such a thing before. The water is clear and cold, like ice.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from here. The sun sets, and you walk along the path. A few minutes later, you come across a man sitting by the well. He looks tired, but he's alive.

The trail to the old well is easy to spot. You can see it from your house. The well was hidden by trees when you lived there. When the forest grew too thick, the tree that held the well fell over. Now, you walk past the well every day.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. We have been here for years, but we haven't gone too far yet. I can see the mountains from here. They are high and majestic.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. We walk along the path, and listen to the sounds of nature. I look out over the trees. They are tall and black, like shadows. They cast their shadows across my face, making me feel warm all over.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. I can see the mountains and feel their weight upon my heart. We walk along the trail. Sometimes we stop for a moment to look at each other, but then we continue.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. We walk there every day. My father has been building a house for us all along the trail. He is always working on it, but he never finishes it.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. I feel like I'm home. My mother's house is just over there. The trees are thick and green. I've never seen them this way before.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. My father has always told me that there are two things you should never do, but I like to go up them anyway. One is a path to the top of the hill; the other is a mountain.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. We walk along the path. I see some flowers that are pretty. They have red petals and white centers.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. We have a nice view there. I walk along the trail, looking at the trees and rocks. It is so peaceful out here.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. I walk past the trees. They are tall and dark, but they do not seem to watch me. Sometimes, when I am alone in the woods, I think about how much I wish that there was someone watching over me.

I love walking up the trail to the hills at the edge of our property. My mom said that we should go there. She told me about how she once saw a man standing by the side of the road. He had long hair and wore a hat like mine.

I followed the faint dirt trail for miles. I had no idea what I was looking for. Finally, I found a small patch of grass. A squirrel sat there. Its fur was white as snow, but its eyes were red like blood.

I followed the faint dirt trail for miles. It led me to a small stream. I could see the riverbed from here. I saw the sun rise over the mountains. A few stars peeked out from behind clouds.

I followed the faint dirt trail for miles. I could smell the scent of grass. It smelled like home.

I followed the faint dirt trail for miles. I saw a man sitting by a fire. He had a big, black beard and wore a red robe. His eyes were like burning coals.

I followed the faint dirt trail for miles. It led me to a hill. A man sat by a fire. He was tall and thin, his face pale and wrinkled. His eyes were red from crying, but he smiled when he saw me.

I followed the faint dirt trail for miles. I thought I saw something. A rabbit scurried along the trail.

I followed the faint dirt trail for miles. The sun shone bright, but I could not see anything. I saw the sky and felt its warmth. It seemed like it was raining.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are soft and warm. I am always happy when I find one.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are soft and warm. I look at them all day. When I get tired, I put them back in the bag.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are warm and soft. I look at them, and think about how they came from somewhere else.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are so small, but they are so pretty. I put them in my pocket for later.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are warm and soft. Sometimes, I pick one up and hold it close to my chest. It is very pretty.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are small, but they make me happy. Sometimes I pick one up and put it in my pocket. Then I look at myself in the mirror.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are very interesting. When I am done, I put them back in the bag. I look for things that move or change shape.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are warm and soft. I put them in my pocket. When I come back home, they will be warm and soft too.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are small, but they have a big sound when you pick them up.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are so pretty. Sometimes, I think about how I can make them into things. Maybe they could be toys for my dolls when they grow up.

I love walking along the trail and picking up shells. They are soft and warm. I like to put them in my pocket.

I like to leave a trail of M&M's so I can find my way back home. Sometimes, when I'm lost, I'll eat one. They're delicious!

I like to leave a trail of M&M's so I can find my way back home. My mom gave them out when we went to the movies. They are so delicious!

I like to leave a trail of M&M's so I can find my way back home. I've been lost for days now. I'm hungry, thirsty, tired, and cold. My feet hurt from walking all day long. Where am I?

I like to leave a trail of M&M's so I can find my way back home. I have been known to eat two or three at once.

I like to leave a trail of M&M's so I can find my way back home. I always get lost when I eat them. They are delicious!

I like to leave a trail of M&M's so I can find my way back home. When I am lost, I always remember that there is chocolate in the box.

I like to leave a trail of M&M's so I can find my way back home. I found a trail of them. They were all different colors and shapes.

I like to leave a trail of M&M's so I can find my way back home. My parents always said that if I could catch a few, then they'd let me stay up all night. So far, I haven't caught any.

I like to leave a trail of M&M's so I can find my way back home. When I eat one, I feel happy.

A dark trail twists among the trees. It leads up a hill. I follow the trail. I find myself in the forest again. A man is sitting by a fire, reading a book.

A dark trail twists among the trees. I followed it. A man stood beside it. He wore a black suit, and he had a big nose that stuck out from his face. His eyes were red like fire, but they seemed sad.

A dark trail twists among the trees. I followed it. My heart beat fast. It led me to a tree. I sat on the trunk and held my hands out for you to climb up and find me there.

A dark trail twists among the trees. I followed it for miles. I had no idea what I was looking for. A man came out from behind one of the trees. He wore a black suit and white shirt.

A dark trail twists among the trees. I followed it. It led me away from the house. The trail turned into a tunnel, and then into darkness.

A dark trail twists among the trees. A man is following it. He has a bow and arrow. I saw him from behind the tree. His face was pale and his eyes were black.

A dark trail twists among the trees. It leads to a cave. A man is standing there, looking out over the forest. He has no eyes, but he wears a crown of feathers. His face is pale and wrinkled like that of a corpse's.

A dark trail twists among the trees. It leads to a cave. A small man is sitting by the fire, holding his head in his hands. He looks like he's about to cry. His eyes are red and puffy from crying.

A dark trail twists among the trees. A man walks along the trail. He is tall and thin. His face is pale, his eyes are red, and he has a scar across his cheek from when he was young.

A dark trail twists among the trees. I followed it. It led me to a cave. A small fire burned inside the cave. A large stone sat atop the fire, which was burning bright red hot.

A dark trail twists among the trees. I followed it. It led me to a tree that had branches like vines. A man sat there with his back against the wall. He held a candle in one hand and a book in the other.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. It led up a hill. The sun was high in the sky. A man and his dog walked along the trail. They stopped for lunch.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. I could see the light from camp. It was just past the trees. I saw a man sitting by his fire. He had a lantern in his hand, but he didn't use it much anymore.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. I had no fear. I just followed the path. A bear came out from behind a tree. He stood there, looking at me. His eyes were red and bloodshot.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. I could see a bright light ahead. I followed it until we reached the campsite. We sat around the campfire, and ate dinner together.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. The sun was shining brightly. I followed the trail until it led me to the campsite. There were many people there, eating dinner. They all seemed happy and contented.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. My feet felt light. I could run fast. I had no fear of heights or darkness. The sun shone brightly on the grassy fields, and the trees glowed softly in the sky.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. I followed it for hours. I could hear the sounds of animals. They must be from the woods nearby.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. We walked along the trail for hours. I could see stars from here.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. I could see the light from camp. A fire burned there. I sat by it and watched the flames.

The trail to the campsite was easy to follow. I could see the moonlight from the campfire. I followed it. Soon, I found myself standing by a large fire. A man sat there, and he smiled at me.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. I saw the light of day. It was a bright sun. My eyes burned like fire. I wanted to go home.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. I saw a light ahead. A light that was very far away.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. It was very steep. I could not see anything. I saw a firefly. It fluttered there for a moment, then flew away again.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. I saw two men walking along the trail. They had a lantern in their hands. One man was tall and thin, and wore a brown cloak. He held his hand out for me to follow him.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. I followed it. It led me to a small stream that flowed out of the mountainside. I watched as the river flowed by.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. I could see the sky above me. The sun hung high over the mountains. It was so bright that I couldn't sleep.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. I saw the sun rise and set. They were different times for me.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. I followed it. As we climbed higher, the trail became more difficult to follow. We had no idea what lay ahead of us.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. I could see the light from the moon shining on the trail. I followed it for hours.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. I followed it. I saw the sun rise and set. I could see the mountains from here. They were tall and majestic.

The trail twisted and turned as it made its way up the mountain. The sun was hot. I could see the mountains far below me.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We found a big, fat man eating a piece of meat. He was naked except for his boots. His face was covered with hair. He smiled at us from under his beard.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We walked along the path. I saw a man's face peering out from behind bushes. He was tall and thin, his hair was white like snow, and he wore a black suit.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We walked along the path for hours. The sun was hot, but we did not care. A light breeze blew, and we could smell the earthy scent of grasses and flowers.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We found a small stream that flowed out of the forest. The campers had built a lean-to around the creek's edge. They sat by their fire and talked about nothing in particular.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We passed a couple of dead bodies. They had been shot. A man lay there, his head crushed by a rock. His body was still warm from the earth he fell upon.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We came upon a large tent. A man sat inside it. He wore a white shirt and blue jeans. His hair was short, but his eyes were big and black.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We had no idea what we were looking for. A tree felled by lightning? A cave that opened up when the earth shook? I found myself walking along a path, following the sound of my feet.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We came upon a large pile of rocks. A man sat there. He had no clothes on. His face was white and wrinkled. He held a piece of paper in his hand.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We found a small stream that flowed from a rock. We swam across the river. The water smelled sweet and cool. It was very cold this morning, but we had to go back to the campsite now.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We found a tree that had been cut down. We climbed up the trunk and took shelter from the sun under its branches.

We followed the campers' trail and wound through the woods. We came upon them, and they saw us. They were playing hide-and-seek. I wanted to play too, but Grandma wouldn't let me.

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. I found the door locked. I kicked the door open. A man sat by himself on a chair. He had dark hair and wore a black suit. His eyes were cold and he stared at me.

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. There was a door there. I opened it. A man sat inside. He had black hair and wore a white shirt that said "Safari".

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. A man sat by himself in his cabin. He had a pipe that he smoked. He stared out the window at the moonlight, which fell upon him like rain.

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. A man sat by himself in his cabin. He had a book open on his lap. I watched him for awhile, until he began reading something out loud to me.

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. There was a door there. I opened it. A man sat inside. He had dark hair and wore a black suit with white shirt. His eyes were green like mine, but they shone like fire.

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. I saw a man sitting by himself. He was wearing a shirt that said "Kelso". His eyes were closed, and he had his head resting against the back of the chair. A candle burned in front of him.

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. I saw a man sitting inside the cabin. He had long hair, and wore a red robe. His eyes were black, like mine. He smiled at me when he noticed me following him.

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. The door was locked. I could hear the wind blowing outside. I opened the window and jumped out onto the porch.

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. I found a man sitting by the fire. He smiled at me, and handed me some food. He said he had been lost for days, but that he knew how to get home.

I followed the trail to the secret cabin. It led to a cave. Inside the cave, there was a large wooden box. A man sat inside the box. He wore a hat and had a beard that reached his knees.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We dug for gold. We found more than we could carry back home. The earth was rich with veins of precious ore. The miners worked hard, but they didn't have enough money to live well.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We dug out a hole and buried our bodies. They are still there.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We had to climb over rocks and through thickets. I thought we were going too fast, but then I saw a big rock coming towards us. It hit me in the back of the head and knocked me down.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We dug holes for our food. We had no firewood, but we ate grasses and roots that grew along the trail.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We dug tunnels under the rocks. We came out of them, and then we went back in again. The earth was warm beneath our feet. I saw a light in the distance.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We had to climb many steps. There were rocks that fell from above. They hurt our feet. When we reached the top, there was nothing but darkness.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We climbed up the mountainside. I could see the sun rise over the horizon.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We saw a light coming from the mountains. It was bright enough for us to see. We could hear the sound of horses galloping over the mountain range.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We walked along the mountainside for days. The sky was blue and clear. The sun shone brightly upon us all.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We went deeper into the mountains. We could see lights in the distance. They seemed so far away. The lights grew brighter and brighter until they were bright enough for us to look at them.

We found the old mining trail and followed it into the hills. We could see the lights of towns and villages. The people were very kind. They gave us food and drink. Some even helped us out when we needed it most.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led from the bathroom to the kitchen. A man was washing his hands in the sink. He had a towel wrapped around him like he was cold or something. I watched him for awhile, and then went back to my room.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led up the stairs. I followed them. A man stood before me. He wore a black suit and a white shirt that was open at the top, revealing his chest.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led up the stairs. I followed them. My eyes lit upon a door. A light shone inside the room. I saw a man sitting there, reading a book.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led up the stairs. I followed them until they lead to a door. I knocked three times. No one answered.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led from the kitchen to the living room. I followed them. There was a door there. A light shone inside, and I saw a man sitting in front of it. He had black hair and wore a dark suit.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led to a door. A door that had been locked. I pushed the door open. Inside was a room with three chairs, and two doors. One opened onto a corridor, the other opened onto a bedroom.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led up the stairs. My eyes widened when I saw them go from room to room.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led up the stairs. They lead out of the room. They led around the corner. I followed them all the way to their source.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led to a door. I walked up the stairs, and opened the door. A man stood there, wearing a black suit. He smiled at me.

I found the trail of fresh footsteps leading across the floor. They led from the kitchen to the bedroom. I followed them. A woman sat by a fire, cooking food for her family. She wore a dress that was too big for her body. Her hair was brown and messy, like dirt.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. It led to a tree. I climbed up the tree. I saw a cave, which had no light inside it. I sat down by the cave entrance and waited for nightfall.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. It led me to a cave. I could hear the sound of waves crashing against rocks outside.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. I found a big rock. I picked up the rock and put it in my pocket. It felt good to hold something solid.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. A small stream flowed by. It was warm here. I sat under the shade of a tree and watched the sun set over the sea.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. I saw a man sitting by a fire. He had a hat on his head, but he wore no shirt. His body was pale and thin like stone. He sat there looking at me, and then he smiled at me.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. I saw a small stream running by itself. I watched as it flowed past trees and over rocks. Then, it disappeared under the earth.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. I found a small hole in the ground. I crawled inside. Inside, there was a tiny tunnel. I walked deeper into the tunnel. The tunnel led to a dark place, and then back out again.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. The trail led to a place called the beach. A little boy sat by the shore. He had a big red nose, and he wore sandals. His name was Jimmy.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. I could hear the creek running nearby. I walked along the trail. It led me to a tree stump. A man sat there, reading a book.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. I wanted to go home. A little boy chased me. He had a big red nose and was dressed like a clown.

I followed the sandy trail that ran through the woods. It led me to a small pond. A little bird flew past me. I watched it fly away from me, and then I saw another one come up to the tree behind me.

It was an awful noise that sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard. A man walked up to me. He said he had been walking along the road when he saw something out of place. Something was wrong with it, though. It didn't look right.

It was an awful noise that sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard. I thought I heard someone laughing. A man sat in a chair across from me. He had black hair and wore a white shirt with blue jeans. His eyes were closed, but he stared straight ahead as if he didn't hear anything.

It was an awful noise that sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard. I saw a man standing in front of me. He had black hair and wore a brown suit. His eyes were dark blue, but his face was wrinkled and his nose was crooked.

It was an awful noise that sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard. A man sat in his chair. He had a cane in one hand and a pen in the other. His eyes were closed, but he could see me.

It was an awful noise that sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard. I ran inside. My mommy said she had to go back to work. She told me not to worry about it.

It was an awful noise that sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard. I wanted to cry out, but no tears came. My eyes were closed. I knew this was wrong.

It was an awful noise that sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard. I wanted to go home.

It was an awful noise that sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard. I thought it was a horrible sound. I wanted to go back home.

It was an awful noise that sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard. I could not understand what anyone said. It seemed like everyone was speaking different languages.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried out for her mother. Her tears fell from her eyes.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried out for her baby. I watched from the window. It was dark outside when she fell asleep.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried out for her baby. Her eyes were red and swollen. She said she wanted to see him again. He had been dead for days, but he was still alive inside her.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried out for her husband. He came home from work, but he could not find his wife. They searched everywhere, but they did not find her.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried out for her husband. He came from his work and found her lying there. He held her hand and whispered words into it's ear. His face was pale white as he stared at the wound in agony.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried out for her mother. Her tears fell from her eyes. They were red and wet. The blood had dried up and hardened, like sand. A dark cloud hung over the sky, and rain clouds gathered above the earth.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried out and wept. I did not understand her tears. I thought about how much she loved me.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried out for her husband. He came running from his house. He put a hand over the hole in his wife's face, and said he didn't want to see what was inside.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried for her baby. She put the baby in a bag, and hid him under the tree. Her face was red from crying.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She screamed for her mother. Her tears fell onto the floor. They stained it red. I wanted to touch her face, but I didn't want to hurt her.

The wound was so awful that she screamed. She cried out for her son. He came running from his room. His face was pale and he had no hair on him. He held a knife in one hand and a torch in the other.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I had no idea what that meant. A scratch is when you scratch your own throat.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I had to get out of here. My mother said that I should go home. She told me that there was a man who lived in town named Mr. Jones. He could help me if I went to him for help.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I felt like crying. I had to go home.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I could not breathe. My eyes hurt. I wanted to cry out, but couldn't move my lips.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I had to go to the bathroom. I sat on the toilet seat, and peed.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I had been crying. Tears came out of my eyes. My mother told me that if I cried for her, she could make me happy forever. She held my hand tightly, and said that she loved me very much.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I wanted to cry out. But I couldn't do that. I had to stay silent. My mother's voice echoed in my head, telling me not to make a sound.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I had no idea what was wrong with me. I couldn't stop crying.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I wanted to cry out. My eyes were red and puffy from crying. A man came up to me and asked if I needed help. He told me that he could take me home, but that I should go back to sleep.

The scratch in my throat made me feel awful. I wanted to cry out. I saw the sun. It shone brightly on the ground below me.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He said that if you were to eat all the food in this room, your stomach would be full for three days.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He had been teaching for years. His face was wrinkled and his hair was gray. He said he didn't know what else to do.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He said that if you had seen this house, you wouldn't have believed him.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He said that if you put a little bit of salt in some water, it would make your hair stand up. The teacher said that he had tried this experiment once before, but the salt didn't work for him.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He said that the moon was not just a light source for us, but also an enemy. If we did not see the moon, then we could be attacked by monsters.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He said that the world was round. We all laughed.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He said that if you had eaten the chicken before noon, then by four o'clock you would have been sick.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He said that if you ate one of these things, you'd die. I didn't understand why he was telling us this joke.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He said that if you had been there when the bomb fell, you would have seen it. You might not have believed him, but he was right.

The professor's awful theory got a big laugh from the class. He told us that the world is round. When he said "round," his voice sounded like a bell.

The monster had an awful odor. I wanted to get away from it. It smelled like rotten meat and sweat. The monster was big, but not too bad looking.

The monster had an awful odor. It smelled like rotten eggs. I screamed when I saw it. When I looked away, the smell disappeared.

The monster had an awful odor. It smelled like rotten meat. I wanted to get away from it. I ran into the woods.

The monster had an awful odor. I could smell it from the top of the house. When I went outside, it smelled worse than ever.

The monster had an awful odor. I wanted to get away from it. It smelled like rotten meat and blood. I screamed when I saw it.

The monster had an awful odor. It smelled like rotten eggs. I could smell it from here. When the monster ate someone, they died quickly.

The monster had an awful odor. I wanted to get away from it. When I reached the bottom of the stairs, I found myself in a dark room. A man sat behind a desk. He held a candle and stared at me with his cold eyes.

The monster had an awful odor. I could smell it from here. It smelled like rotten eggs and sweat. The monster's eyes were red and bulging out of its head. Its mouth was wide open, revealing rows of teeth that seemed to be bleeding pus.

The monster had an awful odor. It smelled like rotten meat. I thought about eating it. Then, I remembered that grandma's chicken soup tasted good when you put some salt on it.

The monster had an awful odor. It smelled like rotten meat. I could smell it from here. When I reached the bottom of the stairs, I saw that there was no way out.

The monster had an awful odor. I smelled it too. It was like rotten eggs. A little girl came out from behind a bush. She was holding a broom, and her hair was white as snow.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. The audience booed. I saw the film again, and it was a bad performance.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too big for his role. He had a bad voice. I could not understand him. The film ended abruptly, and he said "I have to go." He was very bad. The director was a fat man who drank beer. I saw him drink beer while he watched the movie.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too big for his role. He had a bad voice. I could not understand him. The film ended abruptly, and he said "I have to go." He was very bad. I could see that he had no talent for acting.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too big for his role. He had a bad voice. I could not understand him. The film ended abruptly, and he said "I have to go." The director had no talent. The audience was boring.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too big for his role. He had a bad voice. I could not understand him. The film ended abruptly, and he said "I have to go." The actress was not very pretty. She had a small nose, and her eyes were big. Her hair was brown. The actor said he wanted to be famous, but his face was ugly.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too big for his role. He had a bad voice. I could not understand him. The film ended abruptly, and he said "I have to go." He was too short. I wanted him to be tall.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too big for his role. He had a bad voice. I could not understand him. The film ended abruptly, and he said "I have to go." The actress was very pretty. She had long hair that fell past her waist. Her eyes were blue like mine, but they weren't my eyes. They were a little different from my eyes.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too big for his role. He had a bad voice. I could not understand him. The film ended abruptly, and he said "I have to go." He was too thin and had a bad voice. The director said he should be fired.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He had a bad face. His eyes were like two burning holes in his head. The audience laughed and jeered at him.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was a little scary. The audience booed him.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He had a bad voice. The audience booed him. I saw the movie with my grandmother when he was young. She told me that his father died when he was very little, and his mother gave birth to him by herself.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too skinny. His hair was too dark. The actress had a big nose. She wore glasses. Her eyes were small and round like mine.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He had a bad voice. The audience laughed and booed. I cried when he died.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. The actress was not likethe one who played her. I saw the movie and I felt sorry for the actor.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He had a bad voice. He was very fat. His face was ugly.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too fat. The actress was pretty, but her face was ugly. She had no talent for acting.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. The actress was ugly. She had no eyes. Her face was wrinkled and her nose was crooked. She wore a dirty dress that smelled bad.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He had a bad accent. The film was awful.

The movie was really awfulthe actor did not put on a good performance. He was too fat. His face was ugly. I saw him when he walked out of his house.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. I stared at the corpse. It had been dead for days. I held my breath and breathed deeply through my nose. The smell was horrible, but I knew that it wasn't real.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. My eyes burned from the smell. I wanted to go home.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. I wanted to go home. I felt sick. My stomach hurt and my head ached.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. I wanted to cry out. I felt sick. I had never smelled such horrible things before.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. I stared at the door. It opened. A man walked out. He wore a black suit and white shirt. His face was pale, his eyes were dark and he had a scar across his cheekbone from when he was young.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. I saw a man lying in his own blood. He had no eyes, or nose, or mouth. His skin was rotten and wrinkled. His hair was white and brown like that of a ghost's.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. I watched as the dead man's body lay on the floor. His face was pale and his eyes were bloodshot. He had a hole in his chest. A large gash covered his stomach.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. I sat by the fire. I watched as the sun set. The smell filled my nose. My eyes watered, but they didn't tear up or anything like that either.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. I saw a man eating his dinner. He had a large knife in one hand and a fork in the other. His face was dirty, but he smiled at me when he saw me staring at him.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. My nose twitched. I sniffed the air. It smelled like rotten meat and blood. I couldn't breathe in this smell anymore.

The awful stench of rotting flesh filled the air. I saw a man lying dead in the road. He had no eyes or mouth. His body was covered by worms and maggots.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She had a red dress that covered her from head to toe. Her hair was black, and fell in waves around her face. I saw her for the first time since I got here.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She wore it because she liked wearing it. Her hair was black and wavy like mine. When I saw her again, she had changed.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She wore it for me. When I was little, she told me that we would go to the moon. We would meet there.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She was pretty. I watched her walk down the stairs. Her skirt was short, and showed off her legs. I saw her smile when she reached the bottom of the steps.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She had black hair and dark eyes. Her skin was pale. She was wearing a red dress that looked like it was too small for her.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She was wearing a purple dress that was too big for her. Her hair was red, like mine. I wanted to be a girl when I grew up.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She sat on the floor, and told me stories. I had nightmares about her. They scared me.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She had a lot of hair. Her eyes were blue and her lips were red. I wanted to kiss them.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She had her hair done by a girl who worked in the shop. They said she was pretty. I liked her because she wasn't like other girls.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She had on a red dress that covered her entire body. Her hair was brown, like mine. The dress was very tight around her waist, and she wore no shoes.

The dress she wore was awful, but I didn't say anything. She had her hair done by a man who lived in the house. He was ugly. He was also very kind to me when he dressed my hair.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. It came from far away. It sounded like it was coming from the ocean. I could see the lights of ships in the sky. They seemed very big and black.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. A woman screamed. She cried out for her husband, who had been killed by a falling tree branch. He lay dead on his back, and he had not fallen from the top of the tree. His face was twisted in pain and terror.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. It came from far away. A man fell off his horse and onto the road. He screamed, but no one stopped to help him. His body lay there for hours before anyone noticed he was dead.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. It sounded like it came from far away. The sky was darkening.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. It echoed from the house. The moonlight shone upon the door, and illuminated the figure of a woman. She stood by her window, looking out at the world.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. I saw a man die. He fell from his horse and onto the road. His face was bloody, but he wasn't dead yet.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. I wanted to run out of the house. My mother had said that if I screamed, she could make me stop crying.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. A woman screamed for her child. She ran out into the street. Her husband chased after her. He found her, but he wasn't strong enough to carry her back home.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. I wanted to cry out, but couldn't. I could only watch as the beast took its sweet time as it stalked away from the house.

The shriek that broke the silence was an awful sound. I had never heard such a noise before. It shook the trees. I could hear the howl all over the forest.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. My teacher said that I had no talent for math. She gave me a D.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. I got A's all over. My teacher was very angry when she saw how well I did.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. If you don't study, then you won't pass.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. My teacher was very angry with me. She said that I had failed her class. I cried when she told me what happened.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. My teacher was very angry with me. She said that I had failed her class. I cried when she told me what happened.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. I had no idea what was going on. My teacher told me that if I failed, then my parents would kick me out of the house.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. My teacher said that I was too lazy to study. She had me do some work for her, but when it came time to give me my grade, she gave me a D instead of an A. I wanted to cry.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. I failed.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. I was too lazy.

I did awfully in the test because I didn't revise hard enough. I got B's in all my classes. My teacher told me that if I worked harder, then I could get A's.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. She said I wasn't smart enough to be there. Then she grabbed me by the hand and led me out of class. We walked together for what seemed like hours, but really only a few minutes.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. She said I didn't have any friends. I hated her.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. She said I didn't have any friends, but that wasn't true. I liked hanging out with my friends. They were all nice people. But they weren't like me. I hated being different from everyone else.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. He said he didn't want me to forget anything, but I couldn't understand what he meant. I walked home by myself.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. She said I didn't have anything to do but play games. When I got home, she locked me up in my room.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. He said I didn't have any books for the next period. I wanted to cry, but I couldn't. My mother came home from work and took me upstairs to her room.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. She said I couldn't forget that I didn't have any books. When I got home, my mother asked me what happened.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. He called me names. They hurt. I cried. I couldn't read for days after that day.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. I went home crying. My mother said that if I didn't get straightened out, she'd throw me out. She threw me out, but not before telling me about her day at work.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. She said I didn't have any friends. Then she slapped me hard across the face. I screamed and cried for help, but no one came.

I had an awful day at school, I forgot to bring my books and the teacher told me off. She threw me out of class. I didn't know what to do.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. The rain was cold. I could hear the thunder. I saw a lightning flash in the sky.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. My feet hurt. I could not see well, but I knew where to go. I walked until the sun came up. Then, I went home.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. I walked along the road. I saw a man sitting by his car. He was tall and thin, he wore a black suit. His hair was white, like mine.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. My feet hurt. I saw a dog walking along the road. He looked tired. I wanted to play with him, but he wouldn't come near me.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. I saw a man who seemed sad. He walked away from me.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. I wanted to play in the mud, but there wasn't any. My feet hurt from walking on them.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. I walked along the road. I saw a man standing by his car. He was wearing a suit, but he didn't look like one of those people who worked for the government or something. His hair was brown, and he wore glasses.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. I couldn't see anything. My feet hurt. They burned like fire. I didn't want to go home, but there wasn't anywhere else for me here in this town.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. I saw a man sitting by the road. He looked like he needed help. I walked towards him, but then stopped.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. My feet hurt, but I just wanted to go home. I saw a man and his daughter walking together. They were holding hands. He was tall, he wore a white shirt, and his hair was brown.

I had to walk to school in the rain, it was awful. My feet hurt. I saw a man standing by his car. He smiled at me when he noticed me. He waved to me, but didn't say anything else.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We had fun. A few days later, I went back home.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We had no one else to laugh with. I saw a man sitting by himself in the corner of the room. He wore a black suit and tie, and he was balding.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We had no food or drink. My grandma told us that there was a man who lived in the woods. He didn't have much money, but he gave good gifts.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We didn't want to hurt anyone. It was only a game.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We could not stop laughing. My mother was crying, but I did not care. She had been trying to teach me about the world for years.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We had no food or drink. No one spoke for days. Everyone went hungry and thirsty.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We had fun.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We had fun.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We had no food or drink for days. We did not know what to do next. A man came out from his house, carrying a bucket of water.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We had fun.

It was an awful joke but we all laughed. We had no food or drink for days. A man came out from behind a bush and threw us stones. He said he was hungry, but did not say why.

This food tastes awful. It's disgusting. I don't want any more.

This food tastes awful. I ate some of it. It tasted like rotten eggs. I want more!

This food tastes awful. I don't want to eat this.

This food tastes awful. I don't want any more. Please, let me go home!

This food tastes awful. It's disgusting. This is not good for you. You should vomit!

This food tastes awful. I want to eat it.

This food tastes awful. I don't want any more.

This food tastes awful. I want to eat something else.

This food tastes awful. It's rotten. I want to vomit. I want to run away from this place.

This food tastes awful. I want to eat it.

This food tastes awful. I hate it.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I saw a man sitting by the fire. He had a hat on his head and wore a coat over his clothes. His face was pale, but he wasn't sick or ugly.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I sat up and saw that the sun had risen. I went outside and found Grandma. She told me about her day. She said she worked hard, but never got enough money for food or shelter.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I sat up and saw that the sun had risen. It was a bright day. I walked out into the yard and found myself on a large lawn. A dog barked at me from one of the trees nearby.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I couldn't move. My eyes felt like they were burning. I sat up and saw that there was a man standing over me, holding a knife to my throat.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I sat on the floor and cried. My mother came home from work and asked what was wrong. She took me outside to play with her dog. We played until we fell asleep again.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I went outside. A man was standing there. He had long hair, like mine. His eyes were brown and his nose was large. He wore a black suit and a tie.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I felt like I had been hit by a truck. My head hurt so bad that I couldn't see straight. The pain was getting worse.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I sat there for awhile and then went back to sleep.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I couldn't see, but I could hear the noise outside. It sounded like rain. My heart sank when I saw that the sky was darkening.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I had no idea what day it was. My mother told me that if I slept longer, I'd see the sun.

I didn't sleep well and woke up with an awful headache. I had nightmares all day. My mother came home from work early that evening. She said she was worried about me.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. He lived in a cave. When he saw you, he screamed and threw his arms around your neck. His mouth was red and swollen. His eyes were bloodshot, like they had been crying for days.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. He lived in a cave deep underground. He ate people who came near his home. They never returned.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. He was very large, but he was not ugly. He ate people who did not deserve it. His eyes burned like fire when they glared at you.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. It roared like a lion. It leapt over the fence. Its claws tore into flesh. I wanted to run away from it, but I couldn't move fast enough to do anything about it.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. He had red eyes and long claws. His skin was pale white. I could smell him from far away.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. He was a beast that could devour you from his mouth. I watched him eat a rat. His eyes burned like fire.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. He ate people who did not eat him back. His eyes burned like fire. They were red and black. His nose was long and pointed, his mouth wide open and his tongue hanging out.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. He bit his own tongue out. His body was covered with scars. He looked like he could tear you apart if you got too close to him.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. It was covered with scales. Its eyes were red and bloodshot. It sat on a rock, and stared out over the ocean.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. He wore a black cape that covered his entire body. His eyes burned red, but he didn't seem angry. He just stared at you as if he was waiting for something.

The monster had terrible teeth and awful breath. It was black and green, and its eyes were red. Its mouth opened wide like a beast's, but it did not roar or howl. It just stared at you with those horrible yellow eyes.

What do you regret most?. What is your greatest fear?. Why did you come here today?. Where are you from?. How many people have you killed today?. When will you die?

What do you regret most?. You can't remember what you've done wrong. What are your greatest regrets? Do you have any good things about yourself?

What do you regret most?. What is your greatest fear?.

What do you regret most?.

What do you regret most?. I asked.

What do you regret most?.

What do you regret most?. What is your greatest fear?.

What do you regret most?. What is your greatest fear?. If you could be any animal, what would it be?. Why did you pick that flower?. How can you help someone who has lost something?.

What do you regret most?. What are you afraid of?. What is your greatest fear?.

What do you regret most?.

What do you regret most?.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You went on the camping trip. The campfire was warm and cozy. Everyone had fun together.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You didn't want to go on the camping trip. You don't know why you wanted to go on the camping trip.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You wish you had. You have no idea what kind of adventures you could've had.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You had been excited about it.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You had your own tent. There was no one else there. You didn't want to go back home, but you did not know what to do next.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You had a good time.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You had been excited about it. Your mom is very sad now. She has lost her son.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You had a lot of fun. You wish you could go again.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You are sad because you will miss your friends. Your parents are also sad. They have been away for too long. They didn't know what they had lost when they left home.

You regret that you hadn't gone on the camping trip. You remember all the fun you had there. Now, you are sad that you can't go anymore.

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I felt that we should've stayed together. We could've been happy.

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I think about what could've been. What would've happened if I'd listened to you?

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I wish I could go back.

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I wanted to go back home. But I couldn't get there. My father told me that I should stay here, but he didn't know what to do with me anymore. He said that he was sorry for everything.

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I wish that I could go back. I want to be able to look at you again.

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I wanted to go back home. I want to know why they did this to me. Why do you not wish to return?

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I wish that we could go back to when we were young. We would play games together. I would make you laugh.

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I am not sure what happened. Maybe it was fate that led to this moment. Perhaps, it is because I did not choose to be here.

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I thought about that when I saw you. You are a strange one. But then, you remind me of someone else who died recently.

I have always had regret about how things ended up. I wish that I could go back.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. I wish I had gone. The movie was called "A Boy And His Dog." The dog was very friendly and licked everyone.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. I went to see "A Christmas Story." It was very good.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. I should have gone. He said he'd take me to see "The Wizard of Oz." I wanted to go, but I didn't want him to know about my secret.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. He had offered to give me a ride home. We drove around town together. I didn't want him to get out of the car.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. He had offered to give me some candy if I went with him. I didn't want any candy, but he said he'd buy me one if I went with him.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. We had been talking about them for days. He said he wanted to see one of those new movies called "The Hobbit." They showed it in the theater once. I didn't want to go because I knew they weren't real.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. I missed him. He had been nice to me. We sat together on the couch and watched movies together.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. We had gone to see "Jurassic Park." I remember seeing the T-Rex roar. It scared me. I cried when they killed the T-Rex.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. He had invited me to go see "The Wizard of Oz." I didn't want to leave home. My mother wouldn't let me, but she did not say why. She just said that if I wanted to stay, then I could.

I regret that I hadn't accepted Ryan's invitation to the movies. He had told me about the movie. I saw a man who wore a red cape. His face was white, like mine. He held a gun to his head and shot himself in the forehead.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They will never know what I am feeling right now.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They are gone now. I have no one to play with anymore. I am alone.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They are gone now. I am lost. I do not know what is ahead for me. Perhaps I will find something to keep me company here.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They are gone now. I wish they could see what is happening here today.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They will never know what I have experienced.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They are gone now. I am here alone. The world is strange. My thoughts turn to them all the time, but they have not returned home yet.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They are gone now. My father is dead. He died when I was very young. I don't know what happened to him, but he never came back home again.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They will never know that I am here. I wish they could see me now.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They will be sad without me. I am sorry for not being there for them.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They are gone now. I am lost in this swamp. This is not good for me.

I regret leaving my friends behind. They are gone now. My mother has not been home for days. She is always away somewhere, playing games or reading books.

I regret how I left without saying goodbye. I am sorry for not being able to come back.

I regret how I left without saying goodbye. I wish I could go back.

I regret how I left without saying goodbye. I will never forget you. You are always in my heart.

I regret how I left without saying goodbye. I wish I could go back.

I regret how I left without saying goodbye. My mother said that I should come back for dinner. She had a big pot of soup. When I came home, she poured hot milk over my head and gave me some bread.

I regret how I left without saying goodbye. I wish I could go back to that day.

I regret how I left without saying goodbye. I am sorry for being sad.

I regret how I left without saying goodbye. I wish I could go back.

I regret how I left without saying goodbye. I wish I could go back.

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You wish you had studied more.

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You wish you had studied more. You're sorry for not being smart enough to pass this test.

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You had to take it!

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You could have gotten A's. You should've studied more!

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You wish you had studied more.

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You had to go now. Your mother always said that if you studied hard enough, you could do anything.

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You wish you had studied more.

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You should have studied more. You had a lot of things to do tomorrow, but you couldn't focus on them.

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You wish you had studied more. You wished you could have done better.

You regret the fact that you didn't study harder when you realized the test was today. You had to pass it!

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We are sorry for what happened.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We are sorry for what we did.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We are sorry for your loss.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We are sorry for your loss. We hope you find peace in knowing that we will never forget what happened here today.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We are sorry for what we did. We will never do it again.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We had no idea what we were doing. Our father was not a good man. He did not care for us.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We will never forget that you are dead. You were not just our brother; you were a friend.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We will never forget that we are children of God.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We should have been more careful. We are sorry for what happened.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We had been too young when we first met you. Now, we are grown up. We have children who love us dearly.

We regret the terrible mistake we made. We will never go back.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. It was dark outside. I walked along the road. I saw a light ahead of me. The moon shone bright and clear in the sky.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. I wanted to cry. I wanted to scream. I didn't want to live anymore.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. I wished that I could change things. That I could have been different.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. I wished that I could go back and change things.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. I wanted to cry.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. I felt like crying. It hurt to cry. I did not want to be sad anymore.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. I wanted to go back home. I wanted to run away from this place.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. I felt like crying.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. It was a good day when I came home from school. I would look out the window and see Grandma and her friends playing outside. They were so happy, and they loved me too much to hurt me.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. I wanted to cry.

It made me feel regret for what I had done. I knew that I should not have killed him. He was my friend.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. I'm trapped. My family is dead. They're all gone. I don't know what they did to them or whybut they're not here anymore.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. I can't go back home. If you find this note, please take it to your mother. She'll know what to do about me. Goodbye.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. My parents will be home soon. They'll find me, and they won't let me go back to my room anymore.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. I'm stuck here. My family is dead. They died fighting the Empire. Now, they're all dead. All that remains are memories of them, and their deaths.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. They have taken everything away from us. We are hungry and thirsty. We will eat anything that moves, even each other.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. I can't go back home. My mother is dead. She died when I was very young. Her body lay outside her house for days before anyone found it. When they did, it was covered in mud and blood.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. I have no choice but to go back home.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. I'm scared. I don't want to be here anymore than you do. You're not really my friend, are you? You can't even read. Why should I stay here?

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. I'm lost. My mind is gone. I don't know what to do next.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. I'm not going to be able to run away from this place. My parents will find me if they're still alive by morning.

I regret my decision to hide here, but it's too late now. I am trapped in this house. The sun is rising. My eyes are burning from staring at the sun for so long.

I regret that I cannot join them. I am too weak. They are strong.

I regret that I cannot join them. They are gone now. But I will remember their laughter, and how they loved me.

I regret that I cannot join them. They are gone now.

I regret that I cannot join them. They are all gone now.

I regret that I cannot join them. They are all gone now.

I regret that I cannot join them. They are gone now. My memories of them are dim.

I regret that I cannot join them. They are all gone now.

I regret that I cannot join them. They are gone now. I am not sure if they will ever return.

I regret that I cannot join them. I am not strong enough to climb the tree. I have no place here. My heart is broken.

I regret that I cannot join them. They are all gone now.

I regret that I cannot join them. I am not strong enough to climb up the tree. I will never be able to fly like you can.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I wished that I could stay here.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I wanted to go back to sleep. My mother's voice came from the door. She had been crying all day. Her face was red and puffy. She hugged me tightly as she cried her eyes out.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I had no money for a train ticket. I couldn't find any way home. My mother said that if I could get enough money from the bus stop, then we could take a taxi home.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I could have gone back to the house, but I had no money for bus fare. So, I took a walk around town.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I knew that I should have gone back to the house. The road was too far away from the house. The trees were tall and black. They seemed like they had been there forever.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I had no idea what was waiting for me there. I didn't know if I should stay or leave.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I thought about how I should get back home.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I could not find my way back. I had no idea what to do next.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I sat by the river. A man walked along the bank. He wore a yellow shirt and blue jeans. His hair was short, but his eyes were big. They seemed to be looking right at me, and they stared straight ahead.

I regret taking the trip and wanted to go home. I saw a girl walking along the road. She had long hair and wore a blue dress. Her eyes were brown like mine, but her skin was dark as hers.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She wished she had spent more time with her mommy.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She wished she had spent more time with her. Her mother said that she was too young to have any real friends.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She had told her about the world, but not much else. They both said they wished there was more time to talk.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She wished she had more time.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She wished she had more time with her father. Her father told her that he loved her. He said that they could go see each other again sometime soon.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She had been very proud of her. Her mother was also sad. They both cried for a while. Then they laughed again.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She could have asked questions about the world. But she didn't want to know too much. That's why she never talked with her mother anymore.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She had been a good girl all her life. When she grew up, she wanted to be a doctor.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She had been too busy playing with her brothers and sisters. They all wanted to play with her, but she didn't have time for them. Her mother said that they should go back home.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She wanted to see her mother's face again.

She regret that she hadn't taken the time to talk with her mother more. She had told her about the man who lived in the house. He was very tall, and wore a black suit. He had a white beard, and his eyes were like two burning stars. His name was John Smith.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I wish I could go back to when we had a home. When we didn't have this fear every day. When I wasn't afraid of what others thought about us.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I wish I could go back to when I was young.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I wish I could go back and change them.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I wish I could go back and change them. My mother told me that we should all make our own choices. She said that everyone has their own path to follow.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I am sorry for not being strong enough to protect you from those who tried to hurt you. I will try harder in the future.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I don't want to go back there. I'm sorry for everything that happened.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I am sorry for all the times I hurt you. You are always welcome here. Please come back soon.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I am sorry for what I did. I wish that things had been different.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I don't want to do them anymore. I wish there was something else.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I wish I could go back to when we had more fun. When I was younger, I didn't know how to play games well enough. Now, I have learned.

I regret the mistakes that I made in the past. I wish I could go back. But there is no way to do that. My family has been taken away from me. They are gone now, forever.

It is good to try and get over mistakes you might have made in the past, so that they don't drag you down. If you can learn from your mistakes, then you will be able to move forward.

It is good to try and get over mistakes you might have made in the past, so that they don't drag you down. That's why I'm writing this book. I want to write about the things that happened to me when I was little. They're all true, but some are just stories.

It is good to try and get over mistakes you might have made in the past, so that they don't drag you down. You are going to go back home. I am not sure if you will make it, but we can try again another day.

It is good to try and get over mistakes you might have made in the past, so that they don't drag you down. I am glad that I can see now what I did wrong.

It is good to try and get over mistakes you might have made in the past, so that they don't drag you down. You must learn from your mistakes.

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore. I wish I could go back to the store.

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore. I wish I could go back.

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore. I wish I could find something there.

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore. I wish I could go back.

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore. I wish I could go back to the library. That place had books for every subject. Books about everything!

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore. I wish I could go back to those days when there were books everywhere. Books! Books! Books!

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore.

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore.

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore. My mother had told me about books before. She said they could be fun, but also dangerous.

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore.

I regret that I hadn't spent more time in the bookstore. Now it's closed and I can't go anymore. I wish I could find something to read there.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. I want to go back home. My mother is dead. She died from a broken heart.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. I wish I could go back to when I was little. When I first saw you, you were just another face in the crowd. You didn't know me, but we connected somehow. We shared something special that no one else did.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. They are all gone now. I am not a bad person anymore. I have learned that I can change my ways if I really want to.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. I am sorry for everything that happened.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. I wish I could go back. But I can't. And that's okay! Because there is no need for regrets.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. I wish I could go back to when I was little. When I was little, there were people who loved me. They gave me food and clothes and shelter.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. I am sorry for what I did. My father is dead. He died from a broken heart.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. I have been bad, and I am sorry for everything that has happened. My mother was very sad when she saw me. She said that she wanted to be with me more often.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. I have no desire for revenge. I am sorry that I did not live up to your expectations. You are welcome to come visit me anytime you like. Please don't forget about me.

I regret all of the awful things I had done in the past. But now, I am free from them. My mind is clear. I have no more regrets. I will never do anything that has ever caused pain or hurt anyone again.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I want to go home.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I am hungry again.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I want to go home.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I wish I could go back to the day when we ate burgers like this.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I had a headache all day today.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I want to go home. I am hungry.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I threw up all over myself. My mom caught me and cleaned me up. She said I could eat another one if I liked it enough.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I will have to go back home and eat something smaller.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I wanted to go home, but I couldn't find my way out of this house. My legs felt like jelly.

I regretted eating that burger, it was too big and I now feel sick. I ate another one. It tasted good, but it didn't make me feel any better.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I wish I had someone to talk to.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I am sorry for what happened.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I wish that I had someone to talk to about it.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I wish that someone had come along with me.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I am glad that I didn't get lost.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. The cave was dark, and cold. I wanted to stay near the light of the moon.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I wish I had someone to talk to.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I am sorry for your loss.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I wish that someone had been there to guide me.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I wish I had someone to talk to. Maybe there is a place like that in the city.

I regret my decision to go through the caves alone, it was too scary. I didn't want to be alone.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. A man stood there, holding a shovel. He was wearing a dirty work shirt. His face was wrinkled and his eyes were bloodshot. He stared at us as he dug up the ground.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. The wind blew them around like a big, black veil. A man sat on top of the barrier, holding a stick that had been soaked in blood. He wore no clothes. His face was bloody and his eyes were wide open.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. It was dark. A man stood next to the pile of branches. He had no face, only a black hole for a mouth. His eyes were two holes that stared out at nothingness.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. They had been there for years. It was cold and windy out that day. The trees swayed in the breeze.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. I could not see the end of it. I saw that there were trees growing out from it. They were tall and thick like a wall.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. I could see the top of it from my house. It had been there for years. It must have fallen down from the sky.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. They were all rotten. I saw them for the first time that day. They seemed to be moving.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. They were all broken, twisted, and bent. It was impossible to drive over them. A man stood on top of one of the broken ones. He had a gun in his hand.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. A man stood by the wall, holding a machete. He stared at us from behind his glasses. His hair was black and curly like mine, but he had green eyes instead of brown ones.

There was a huge barrier of dead branches piled in the center of the road. They had been there for years. It was a very dangerous place to be.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. My feet hurt from standing there for so long. A tree grew out of the ground. I could see it. It was very tall, but not too high.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. I climbed up the bramble. I could hear the sound of rain falling. It sounded like a waterfall. The wind blew through the trees, making them sway gently.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. I could not climb it. It seemed like the most pointless obstacle ever.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. I could not go any closer. I had no idea what it was for.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. I could see the lights from inside. They seemed bright, but not too bright. A man sat on top of the wall, holding a lantern. He wore a hat and had a beard that grew all the way to his feet.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. I climbed up the bramble. I could hear the wind blowing through them. They smelled like rain and flowers.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. A woman's voice called out from behind the thicket. "What are you doing?" She had curly brown hair and wore a dress that hung low enough for her to see all the way up to her knees.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. A large, black dog barked at me from behind the bramble. He growled and snarled. His eyes were red and puffy. They stared at me for a moment before he turned away.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. My mother was there. She sat me on her lap and told me stories. She held my hand as we walked through the woods.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. My feet hurt from standing there for hours. I wanted to go home.

A six foot barrier of tangled, overgrown brambles lay between me and the house. I could not climb it. I saw a man sitting on top of the barrier. He had no clothes on his body, but he wore shoes. His face was dirty and scruffy, like that of a homeless person who lived nearby.

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. I've never seen anything like it before. The fire is always small, and the flames are low. We all watch from behind the barbed wire fence.

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. We've been living here for years. Why is there a barrier? What are we doing here?

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. It is not easy to get near the fire, but we have to be careful. The fire burns for hours. We watch the flames, and occasionally someone makes a comment about how hot they are.

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. My grandmother always said that we should never let them get close to us. We have to stay far enough away from the fire, but close enough for her to see us.

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. The fire is very hot. We are all sitting there, watching the flames. A man stands near the campfire, holding a knife. He has a face like an angry beast. His eyes look straight ahead and his mouth hangs open wide.

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. The fire is big enough for all of us to gather around. A young man sits by himself. He has a knife in his hand. He stares at the flames, and looks sadder than usual.

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. I'm not sure what kind of animal it is. Maybe a bear or something. I don't know anything about them.

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. Grandma always said that if there weren't any wild animals, then there wouldn't be anything for us to do.

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. My grandma always said that if we didn't burn all the wood, there'd be no place for us to sleep tonight.

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. A man is sitting by the fire. He has a beard and wears a shirt that says "Pizza Hut".

There's a barrier around the campfire to keep the wild animals away. We have no food or water. My brothers and sisters are all dead. They died from hunger, thirst, cold, and other things that we cannot fathom.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. I could see the light from the exit. I saw a man standing there. He wore a white suit, and had a bow tie around his neck. His hair was black, and he was smiling at me.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. I couldn't see anything, except for the bright light that shone from the exit. I wanted to go out.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. I couldn't get past it. It was like a wall. A white wall. I didn't know what it was for, or why I had to go around it.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. It was black and solid. I couldn't see anything. I could hear the sound of rain against the wall behind me.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. I had no idea what it was for, or why it existed. I stood there, staring at the barrier. Suddenly, I saw something that frightened me.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. I could not get past it. My legs felt like jelly.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. It was solid wood. I saw a man standing near the exit. He wore a black suit and white shirt. His face was clean-shaven, and his eyes were large. They seemed sad when he smiled at me.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. A wall. I could not go around it.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. I could not go any further.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. I could not get out.

I tried to move forward, but there was a tall barrier between me and the exit. I could see a hole in the ground. A man stood in front of me. He wore a black suit and white shirt. His hair was short, and his eyes were big.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They had been building them for years. When they finished, they stood there and waited. Then, they went back to work.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They worked hard for their money. I watched them work. One man was bald, but he had a beard that grew all the way up his chest. He wore a black suit and white shirt.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They had to leave their homes for months. When they returned home, they found that the houses were gone. The walls had been destroyed by floodwaters.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They built them like this one. They were very skilled at their work.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They had no idea what they were doing.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They built them for the people who lived there. Some of those people were my parents' friends. They worked hard all day, and then they went home to their families.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They had to be careful not to let any water through.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They worked hard for their money. I watched them work. Some were young men, some were women, all had children of their own. All of them wanted to be mothers one day too.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They worked hard for their families. I saw them working. They had a smile on their faces, and they were happy.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They were all very good people. I saw them building the barrier when they came back home. When the barrier was finished, I sat on top of it and watched them go inside their houses.

The workers helped build barriers to prevent the town from being flooded. They were very nice people.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He sat in his cage for hours, until he fell asleep.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He fell into a ditch. I saw his eyes open wide, then he opened them again. They were red like fireflies.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He was very skinny, and his eyes were red. His hair was black and he had a big nose.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He fell from the sky. He flew high above us. The bird flapped its wings, and then it disappeared.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He wanted to go home.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He ran around the corner.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He had no legs. They cut his body open to see what was wrong with him.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He sat there and he cried. He had been sad for days.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He sat on the floor and cried. I thought he was sad.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He jumped out of a window, and fell onto the pavement below.

He tried to jump the barrier at a concert and run on stage, but security guards took him away. He was too big for them to handle. They threw him in a cage.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to go back home. A man was standing there holding a rope. He smiled at me.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to go around it.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to go around the tree.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to go around the tree. I climbed up onto the rope, and pulled myself across.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to go around it. I saw a man standing there. He had no face. His eyes were red like fire, and his mouth was wide open, but he wasn't smiling or laughing.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to go over the fence.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I had never seen such a thing before. I wanted to go over the bridge.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to go back home. A little girl walked past me. She had big eyes and a small nose. Her hair was black and brown like mine, but her face was different from mine.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to climb up there and find out what was inside. I tried to do this many times, but each time, the rope wouldn't let go.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to go back home.

I didn't want to cross the barrier of rope that was strung between two trees. I wanted to see what happened next.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We could hear the sound of water below us. It was like we were hearing it for the first time.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We had to walk around them. They seemed like they were trying to keep us out.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We had to go around them. A large tree blocked our path. We could not climb over it.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We could hear the sounds of animals. They seemed to be very happy.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We could hear the sounds of animals in the distance. They must be our friends.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We could see the moonlight through them.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We had to turn around. I could see that we were not far from the village.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We could only go forward or backward. I saw a man standing by the road. He had no hat on his head, but he wore a black suit.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We sat there for hours. The sun had set, but we could see no more of the sky. We lay on our backs and watched the stars twinkle above us.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We sat by the road. My brother and sister played on their bicycles. They rode past us.

The barrier of trees stopped us from advancing deeper into the woods. We had to climb over them. As we climbed higher, the trees grew thicker and taller. The sky was blue above us. A light breeze blew across our faces.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. They are called fences. A fence separates us from the city. We have no cars here. Cars travel fast in this town, but they can't go very far without gas or oil.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. They are tall and thin. They have no windows or doors. A man sat in the middle of them. He wore a white shirt and blue jeans.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. They are there for safety's sake. Some people have run away from the noise and chaos that has been happening. Others are just scared. I watched as they tried to get home.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. They are built to keep people from getting hurt. However, they do not stop a runaway car. A man drove his car onto the track and over the barrier. He fell off the bridge into the river below.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. They are high and wide. A man in a suit stands near the barrier. He wears sunglasses. His hair is white, like mine, but his eyes were blue.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. They are there for safety's sake. I watched them from afar. I could see the people running, and jumping over the barriers.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. A man stood there. He wore a red shirt and had black hair. His eyes were wide as he watched the race.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. They are there for safety's sake. If they could see us, they wouldn't be able to understand why we run. We don't want them to hurt us or take our things.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. A man dressed in a suit sat behind them. He had his head buried in a book.

Concrete barriers surround the race track to protect spectators. They are there for safety reasons. If they weren't, people wouldn't be able to see the cars go by.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. Wolves and foxes are dangerous creatures. They have sharp teeth, claws, and tails that can tear flesh. The sheep will be safe if they stay close to the fence.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. Wolves are ferocious creatures that hunt for their food. They will attack anything they see as prey. Foxes have small bodies, but can run fast enough to catch prey if they want to.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. They are afraid of them. They do not know what they look like. Wolves and foxes have been known to kill the sheep because they think that they are the wolves or foxes.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. They are afraid of them. Wolves have been known to kill and eat the sheep. Foxes will steal their food, but they can't catch them.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. They are afraid of them. The wolves and foxes have been known to kill the sheep.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. They are very friendly creatures. They do not attack humans, but they will eat them if given the chance.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. They are not allowed to leave the pasture.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. The wolf is not a good hunter. He eats his prey alive. The fox has no sense of smell or hearing, but he can leap great distances.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. Wolves and foxes are vicious creatures that prey upon sheep. They eat them alive. The wolves and foxes are very dangerous beasts.

The fine acts as a barrier to protect the sheep from wolves and foxes. They are not allowed to leave the pasture without permission. The wolf hides behind the fence, but he is not very big. He only weighs about twenty pounds.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They said they wouldn't be able to afford to repair it if someone broke in. They said they didn't want anyone getting hurt.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They said they had no idea what could be out there. I saw the barrier, and it was very high. A man stood by it. He wore a hooded robe that covered his entire body except for his eyes.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They had to be careful. The people who lived there were dangerous. They might not want you here. You could get hurt if they saw you coming from the outside.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They didn't want anyone to get hurt. A man came out from behind the barrier. He had a gun in his hand. He pointed it at us. "Who are you?" he asked.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They didn't want anyone to get hurt. People were scared. One day, they went out and shot the cat!

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They didn't want people to see what was inside. But I knew that they had to be watching over this place. People were coming from all over the world for jobs here.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They said they didn't want any trouble. I wanted to go inside. I climbed over the fence. The fence was very high, but there was no way out for me.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They said that they had to protect themselves from the monsters that lived there. I didn't like them being afraid of monsters.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They said they had to protect the people from something. Something bad.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They had no idea what they were doing. They didn't know how to build anything. It took them three years to finish the fence.

They put up a tall barrier around the new housing development. They didn't want people living there. People lived in the houses that were built before the barrier went up. I saw them play in their yards. I watched them from my window, and they played with each other too.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. I could not go any further.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. A man stood there, holding a shotgun. He held the barrel up to his face. I wanted to run away from him, but he was too close for me to escape.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. A man stood behind the barriers. He had a beard, and wore glasses. His eyes were wide open, like they were staring right at me.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. A man stood there. He wore a black suit and tie, and had his face hidden by a hooded cloak. His eyes were red like fire.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. I could not get past them. They were heavy. I wanted to go around them, but they were too high for me to climb over.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. I could not go through that way. The door was locked. I thought about how the cat had run away from me, but then remembered what it said to me when I fell asleep.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. I saw that there were two men standing over a mannequin. They had sharpened their knives and were holding them close to the mannequin's neck. A woman stood behind them, her face covered by a black hooded cloak.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. A man stood there, holding a shotgun. He stared at me. His eyes were black and glowed red. They burned into my soul like fire.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. A man stood there, holding a shotgun. He pointed his gun at me.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. I could not go around it. I had to get inside the building.

At the end of the alley, a barrier of crates and trash bags blocked my way. I couldn't go around the wall. The sun shone in through the gap between the crates and bags. It burned my eyes, but I could see that there was another way out of this place.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said they had been told that there was a monster living under the bridge. The barrier went up high, but it didn't stop anyone from coming over.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said that we didn't belong here. We had to be separated from them. I wanted to go out into the world, but they wouldn't let me.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said they didn't want anyone getting hurt. We had no idea what that meant.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said we weren't supposed to be here. But they didn't know what else to do.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said that they had seen something strange in the distance. A man stood on top of a mountain. He held a sword, and he was holding another one like this one. The two men stared at each other for several minutes.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said that there were too many people here. We didn't want them here.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said that they had been attacked by zombies. The tourists were not very happy about this.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said they had no money for that. We didn't want them to see us like this.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said they had no money for that. We could see the city from our house. A woman sat on the porch, holding her baby. She held onto her child tightly, but smiled at us when we came by.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said we weren't supposed to see them. We had no idea what they meant by that.

They put up a barrier between us and the tourists. They said they had no more room for them. We were all alone in this house.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. The houses were built too close together. They weren't safe from the wind or rain.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. The farmers never spoke to each other. They just worked their fields together.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. One farm had a fence, and the other farm did not. The farmer's daughter was walking home from school one day when she saw something strange. A man walked towards her. He wore a black suit and white shirt.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. The fields grew wilder and wilder. My parents could not grow anything. They had no idea what they should do.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. The fields were flat, but they had hills that rose up from them.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. They had a fence that they never liked to cross. One day, one of them decided to leave their field and go over the hill.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. They grew taller than the houses. In time, they became trees. Trees that grew so thickly, that they blocked out the sun from reaching our crops.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. The fields were wide and full of green grass.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. They had no idea what was happening. One day, they saw the first light. A man came out from one farm and said he wanted to buy land there. He asked if anyone could speak English.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. They grew taller than the houses that surrounded them. They were thick and black.

Over time the tall weeds and hedges formed a natural barrier between the two farms. One farm had a large field that was covered with crops. The other farm had a small plot of land. Both farms grew wheat, corn, and peas.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see the stars. They're too far away. I want you to look up at the sky, and imagine that they are here with you.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see anything except the dark blue sky. A light drizzle fell. The clouds were thick and black.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see anything. But you know there is something out there. Something that could help you find your way home.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see what you're doing. You just look around and stare at the sky. Your hands are cold, but you don't want to touch anything.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see anything else. A black cloud covered the sky. The clouds are very large and dark. They look like they're moving slowly across the sky.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see far away. You don't know what day it is.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see the stars. You're hungry, thirsty, tired. A voice whispers to you from behind the trees.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see anything. There are no stars. The moon is too small for you to see, but there's a cloud above it that makes it look bigger than it really is.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see far away. A black cloud looms over you.

There's a barrier of trees blocking your view of the sky. You can't see far away. It's so dark that you can't make out stars. A light shines from behind the tree.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. The door was locked. I wanted to go out and play.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. I could not see anything else but the sky.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. I sat by the window and watched the world go by.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. My mother told me stories about the world that I could not understand. She said there was a tree in the sky, and it had four branches.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. There was no way of running away. There was only one option for escape.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. I had never seen anything like it before. The moon shone brightly.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. I saw a man who had been lost for years. He sat by the road, looking up at the sky.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. My grandmother had a big tree in her backyard. She said that if you climbed up, you could see the sky.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. The fence was tall and solid. There was nothing that could get inside.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. My grandmother was afraid that I might climb up the fence. She wanted me to stay inside.

The trees made a barrier around the house and there was no way over the fence. There was no way of climbing in. I could not climb up.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. It was very tall. I could see all around it from here. The mountainside was covered with snow. There were no trees up there; only ice and snow.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. I watched the mountainside. The sun shone brightly upon them. They were tall and majestic. The traveller's eyes rested upon them for a moment, and then they began to wander towards the mountains.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. They climbed up the mountain. I watched them climb. My eyes rested on the top of the mountain. It was very tall, but not too high for me to see over it.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. It was high enough that you could not climb it. The traveller climbed up the mountain. He had to go further, but he couldn't see anything else around him.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. The mountains were tall and steep. They seemed to go on forever. The traveller climbed up the mountain, and then came out onto the other side.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. They had to climb the mountain. The wind blew hard, but they climbed up the mountain.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. A tall mountain stood there. The traveller had to climb up the mountain before they could reach their destination.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. I could see the horizon, but I couldn't get there. The mountains seemed too high for me to climb them.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. We had no idea what lay beyond that mountain.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. A small hill sat there. It was too steep for anyone to climb it. The traveller climbed up the hill. He saw a cave ahead, but he could not go any further because his legs were frozen from lack of oxygen.

The mountain was the last barrier between the travellers and their destination. It was high enough that no one could climb it. But there were ways around it. The traveller climbed up the mountain. He reached the top of the mountain, but he couldn't see anything below him.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He fell back onto the floor. His eyes widened when he saw me. "What are you doing here?" he asked.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He held onto his leg as if he could get it back. His eyes were red and puffy from crying.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He fell backward, and then rolled over onto his back. His eyes were wide open. He squinted his eyes, and opened them again. They stared straight ahead, without blinking or moving.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He fell backwards onto the floor. His foot twitched. Calvin's eyes were wide open. He was scared. He had no idea what to do next.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He sat back down. Calvin's legs hurt when he walked. His mother took him to the doctor every year or two. She wanted him to be healthy so he could play football for the school team.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He fell backwards onto the floor. His eyes were wide open, but he didn't seem to be moving. Calvin's mouth opened and closed like a fish out of water.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He fell to the floor. His legs were broken. Calvin's eyes were wide open when he died.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He looked like a little boy who had fallen and hurt himself. His eyes were red from crying.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He sat back down. His face was pale.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He grabbed the bag and dropped it onto the floor. His eyes widened when he saw that his knee had been bitten off by a spider. Calvin's face turned red, and blood poured from his mouth.

Calvin stood up to grab his book bag, but his leg limped as he tried to stand. He fell to the floor. His eyes were red and puffy. He struggled to get back up, but he couldn't move. His legs felt like jelly, and his face was pale and wrinkled.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He had a big red nose that was crooked. His eyes were small and round like mine.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He was very skinny. His legs were broken.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He was a little boy who lived in the house. His name was Bob. I loved him very much.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He could not walk very far before he fell over. I watched him for a while. His eyes were red and puffy from crying.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He walked like a ghost. His eyes stared out from under his black hair. He was very lonely, but he never complained about anything.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He was always trying to get out of the house. His leg hurt all the time. When he got tired, he lay down on the porch and slept.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He was very skinny. His eyes were black and red. They burned like fireflies.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He didn't look like himself. His eyes were red, and his face was pale. I wanted to help him up, but he wouldn't let me touch him.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He went to a doctor who said that he could not do anything for him. The man did nothing for him either. They both just sat there and watched him walk away from them.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He crawled along the ground. His leg hurt like hell. When he got tired, he curled up in a ball and went to sleep.

He had a terrible limp when he walked because of his injury. He was a little boy who lived alone. His name was Tugboat. He told me stories about his home town.

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. It was red, and smelled like roses. I held it close to me. A breeze blew across my face.

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. I held it close to me. I smelled its sweet scent. My mother had told me about this flower when we were little girls. She said that she loved flowers, and that they were very special to her.

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. It had been a bright red flower. Now it was wilted and brown. I held it close to me, and wept for its death.

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. It is a white flower. Its petals are red and its stem is green. I am holding it because I want to remember that this flower will die soon.

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. Its petals are red and yellow. I hold it close to me. I know that this is the last time I will see its petals.

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. I put it in a vase. I have never seen flowers die before. They are just like that.

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. It is dying. I am dying. We are both dying. I want you to take this flower from me, and give it to someone who needs it more than I do.

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. It is dying. I can see its petals are blackening and falling off. This flower has been here for years. How many days have passed?

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. It was a yellow flower. Its petals were like snowflakes. I thought about how cold it had been this winter.

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. It is not good to touch flowers. They are delicate and fragile. But I am too weak to care about them now. I will leave you all alone. Goodbye, my love!

The dying flower limp sadly in my hand. It is a white lily. A light wind blew across it. I held it close to me. The sun shone brightly upon the flower's petals.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates. They helped him up and he limped away from the field.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates. They had to carry him back to the locker room.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates. They didn't know what to do. They couldn't run after him.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates.

He was tackled around his ankle and injured. He had to limp off the field with the help of some teammates.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes were red. They seemed to be searching for something.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes were red and puffy. Her face was pale and wrinkled. She wore no shoes.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes were red and puffy. They seemed to be looking for something.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes stared at you. They were sad. You could see tears in them.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes stared blankly ahead. I could see that she had been crying for days.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes were red and puffy. They stared at you from beneath her lashes. You could see tears forming in them.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes stared blankly ahead.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes were red, and her face was pale. She sat in front of a fireplace. A man stood behind her. He wore a suit, but his shirt sleeves were rolled up.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. She stood there, looking down at the ground. Her eyes were wide open. They stared up at the sky.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes stared blankly ahead. She sat on the floor and sobbed. I could not understand what she said.

Her clothes were soaked, and her hair hung limp above her shoulders. She did not look happy. Her eyes were red, and her lips were chapped. She wore a green dress that was too small for her body.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its wings had been clipped. I saw its beak open up as if it was trying to say something. Then, it closed again. It was still there when I went home that day.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. I stood there for a moment, staring at it. Then, I picked up the dead bird and held it close to my chest.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. It had been dead for days. I knew it well. When the sun rose, it flew away from the house.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. I could see its wings flapping gently. The wind blew them back and forth. I watched as they twirled around each other, like a dance.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. It had been hit by a car. A man came out of his house. He looked like he was drunk or high. He grabbed the dead bird from the ground and threw it in a bag. Then, he walked away into his house.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its beak was broken. I could not help but cry out when I saw it.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. It had been dead for days. I saw a man carrying it away from the tree. He put his hand over its mouth, but he didn't know what to do with it.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. It had been killed by a bolt from the sky. I saw it fly away.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. It had been dead for days. A crow sat on top of its head. I saw a man walk by. He wore a green coat and dark pants.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. It had been dead for days. I saw it fly away from me.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its beak was bloody. It had been hit by a car.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its beak was bloody. I watched it wiggle its head.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its beak was bloody. It flapped its wings, but they didn't move. I could hear it crying out. I wanted to touch it, but I couldn't reach it yet.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its wings had been clipped. A man sat next to the dead bird. He wore a white coat over his blue overalls. His face was covered by a hat that he held up to shield his eyes from the sun.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. It had been there for days. Its wings were still stretched out. I could see its beak. It was so sad that it died like this.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its beak was broken. It had been hit by a car. A man walked past, and saw the bird lying there. He picked up the bird, and put it back in its cage.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. I saw it fly away from me. It flew far away, but never came back home.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its beak was broken. It looked like a crow, but its wings were gone. I saw the broken wing and knew that it had died before dawn.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. It had been alive when it fell from the sky. Its wings were spread wide open. It flew away from me.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. It had been alive when it fell from the sky. It was so small that I could have held it in my hand.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its beak was bloody. I watched it for awhile. Then, I picked up the bird and held it close to me. It smelled like rain.

The dead bird lay limp on the ground. Its beak was bloody. I picked it up and held it close to me. It smelled like blood.

He had a slight limp in his walk. He was small, but he could run fast. His eyes were bright blue. They glowed like stars.

He had a slight limp in his walk. He was small, but he was strong. His eyes were big and round. They shone like stars.

He had a slight limp in his walk. He walked slowly. His eyes were small and dark. They were so sad looking. I wanted to hug him, but he was too far away for me to reach him.

He had a slight limp in his walk. He had a big nose. His eyes were red. He walked slowly across the room.

He had a slight limp in his walk. He was a little slow, but he was fine. I always liked him.

He had a slight limp in his walk. He walked fast, but he didn't seem to be running.

He had a slight limp in his walk. He walked slowly. His eyes were red, but he smiled. He was very sad when he fell from the sky.

He had a slight limp in his walk. He was a little slow, but he wasn't that bad.

He had a slight limp in his walk. He wore a red shirt, blue jeans, and brown boots. His eyes were green, but he didn't look sad or scared. He just stared out at the world.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He's very sad.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He's very sad.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He forgot to feed them and now they're sickly. They'll wither and die soon.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He forgot to feed them, and now they're starving. They've been here for years. He's forgotten about his own children, who are all grown up and gone too.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He's never going to bloom again.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He forgot to feed them and now they're dying. They must be fed soon.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He's too lazy to pick them up and put them back in the pot.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He's not even going to take care of them! I want him to be more careful!

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He's been here for days. They'll wilt soon.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He's a good boy, but he's not very bright.

He forgot to water the flowers and now they're hanging limply in the pot. He's been eating too much and he doesn't know how to stop.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. The pages were yellowed and cracked. Grandma read it to me when I was little. She always said that if I studied hard enough, I could be a writer like her someday.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. I opened it up. It smelled like books. A lot of them. They smelled good too.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. I wanted to tear it open. I knew that if I tore it open, the pages would fly out and cover me.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. It was black and yellow. A man sat inside the cover. He wore a red cape that reached his knees. His face was pale, but he smiled when he saw you.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. A man sat in front of it. He wore a dark suit and tie. His hair was gray, but his face was clean shaven.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. I picked it up. It smelled like old books.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. I read about a boy who loved his dog more than anything else. He could not get enough of the little creature. His father died when he was young, and he grew up alone. One day, the dog bit him in the face.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. I opened it up. It smelled like books. I read about the sun and how it shines on the earth. Then, I closed the book and put it back in its place.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. I picked it up. It smelled like books.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. I wanted to tear it open and read all its pages. The cover was yellowed with age.

The old book had a limp binding and was close to falling apart. It was a large leather bound book. I read about the moon. It was very bright that day.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They were pale and yellow. Their petals looked like they had been cut with a knife. A white flower sat beside them. It was very pretty, but I didn't want to touch it because I thought it might be poisonous.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They had been in love for years. Their eyes glowed brightly when they saw each other.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They had been planted by Grandma. She told me about them when they were young. When they grew up, she taught them how to dance.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They had been there for years. A flower that grew near the vase looked wistful as it walked by.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They had been there for years. I could not touch them. I wanted to know what they were like.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They were not pretty. A black flower that was red like blood fell from the vase. It was very sad.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They were small, but they had their own beauty. I watched them wilt and die.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They had been placed there by Grandma. She always said they were very pretty. I thought about them while I played with the petals.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They were red and yellow. I saw them for the first time today. The roses were small, and the petals thick. The petals twirled around each other, like a dreamer's eyes looking out from behind his eyelids.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They had been there for years. They were very pretty.

The flowers in the vase on the mantle limped sadly. They had been there for years. A little girl once sat by them and told her stories. She played with them and they loved her back.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He's very skinny. When I went outside, he wasn't there. My mom said that he had gone out for a walk by himself.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He has a big brown nose, and black eyes. I want to see him again.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He has been missing for days now. My brother says that he went out one day, but never came back.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He's not very good at sports, but he loves to play fetch.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He's been missing since yesterday morning.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He sits next to his owner on the porch.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He has a big black eye that sticks out from his head. I want him back home.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He sits by the window and stares out at the world. Sometimes, he looks up at me, but he doesn't look angry or sad.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He sits by the window, watching for anything that moves. Sometimes he looks up at the sky, but his eyes are always fixed on something else.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He has a limp because he broke his leg. When I saw him, he was lying in the grass. He had no fur on his back or legs.

Have you seen my dog? His name is Santos, and he limps slightly when he walks. He has a limp that looks like it's from his leg being broken. I don't want him to get hurt again. If you find him, please take good care of him.

I hate doing the chores. I wish they'd just let me stay home. When I get older, I want to be a doctor or a lawyer. My favorite color is pink.

I hate doing the chores. I don't like cleaning up after myself. My mother hates that about me. She always says I'm lazy and stupid. But then, maybe she's right.

I hate doing the chores. I hate them so much that I can't do them. My mother said I should be ashamed of myself for not being able to do these things. She always told me that if I did something well, then others could learn from it too.

I hate doing the chores. I hate them more than anything else. They are always dirty, and never get done right. I wish they could just disappear!

I hate doing the chores. I hate cleaning up after myself. But there's nothing else for it now. We have to go home.

I hate doing the chores. They are always boring. I wish they could be fun!

I hate doing the chores. I want to play.

I hate doing the chores. I'm always afraid that someone will find out about how bad I am at them. My mother had told me that if I did well in school, then they wouldn't have to do any chores for me anymore.

I hate doing the chores. I don't like getting dirty. I'm not good at them. They're for children. Grandpa said that if you want to be a real man, you have to do all the work around here!

I hate doing the chores. I wish they'd just let me play all day. My mom always said that if I wanted to play, then I should do it myself. She told me not to worry about what other people thought of me for playing games.

I hate doing the chores. I am too lazy to do them. My mother does them for me. She is mean to me when she says that I don't have any chores done.

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. My mother always said that if I did not do this, then someone else would have to do it for me.

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. My mum has never let me do them. She said they are for 'the boys'. I don't want to be a boy!

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. I hate doing them. They are dirty and messy. My mother said that if I wanted to be a doctor, then I should learn how to do the dishes properly.

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. I hate doing them. My mum always told me that if I did them well, they wouldn't have to do the dishes. She said that if you didn't like doing something, then don't do it!

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. My mum always said that I needed to be more like her. She was the one who taught me how to wash dishes properly. I washed them for hours until they were clean.

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. I have no idea what's in them. They're just dirty dishes that you put away for tomorrow.

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. I have no idea what they are for. Sometimes, I don't even do them. They just pile up on the counter. When you're little, you want to be a princess or a prince or something like that.

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. I don't like doing them. I hate cleaning up after myself. My mother has told me that if I do this, then no one will love me anymore.

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. My mother always said that if I didn't do it, someone else would. Sometimes, when I wash up, I think about how much fun it could be to play hide-and-seek with my sister.

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. I have to wash the dirty dishes by hand. Sometimes, I can't do it. When that happens, my grandmother comes home from work and takes me to the bathroom.

My least favourite chore is doing the dishes. My mother always told me that I should be playing. She said that I could play games for hours on end.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. I clean up the kitchen. I put away the dishes. I wash the dirty clothes. I dust and mop the floor. When it is done, Mommy takes me to bed, and says that we will play until morning.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. I clean up the kitchen. Grandma always said that I should be good at this. She told me that if I did well, then maybe one day, I could go to college.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. I had to clean up the floor. I picked up some dirt from the ground and threw it away. I cleaned up the kitchen.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. I wash the dishes, sweep the floor, and mow the lawn. If I don't get up early enough, then I'm late for school.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. My grandma said that I could help her clean up the house. She told me to sweep out the kitchen, and then we can talk about more things later.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. I look for them. I find them. They are easy. I don't like doing them, but they must be done.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. I clean up the kitchen. I wash dishes. I make sandwiches for everyone.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. I have to sweep the floor, wash dishes, and clean up around the house. If I don't do these things well enough, I get punished.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. I look at the pile of dirty laundry. I think about how much I hate doing them. My mother said that they are for cleaning up after you, but really, they're just for me.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. I clean up the kitchen. Sometimes, Grandma comes home from work. She helps me. I don't like her coming here, but she does help me out when she can.

Before going to bed, I have to do chores. My grandma always told me that I should help her. She said that I had to clean up after myself.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. Sometimes, I like to go out by myself. Grandma always said that if I liked something, then I should keep it. She told me not to throw things away.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. My mom is always playing with her friends. She plays with them until they are tired. Then she tells me to go home. I do not want to leave the house, but I have no choice.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. Sometimes, I go out there. I like playing in the moonlight. I can't wait for summer to come.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. I play with my friends. We are all very happy together.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. I played for hours. My eyes were tired from playing. When I went home, I saw that the sun had set.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. My grandmother's house is far away from here. I like playing outside.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. I play for hours. My friends are always there to watch me play. They laugh when they see how fast I can run around the yard.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. My mother is very sad when I don't come home. She has been crying for days now. I want to go back inside, but I can't.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. I want to play outside. I run around and jump up and down. My eyes are wide open, but they have no tears yet.

After I finish my chores, I am allowed to play outside. I love playing outside. I like to go for walks. Sometimes, I look at the sky and think about how bright it is.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I don't want to go home. I just want to lie here and dream about Grandma's stories.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I am tired. My eyes are heavy. They hurt when I close them.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I will take them very seriously. I am not allowed to cry or laugh anymore.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I can't just go out and play all day. My mom always said that if I didn't get chores done, then she'd beat me.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I am not sure what they are all about. I just know that I will get them done.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I can't let myself get distracted. I have to focus.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I am scared. My mommy is worried about me. I want to go home.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I want to go home now.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I want to go home. I will be back soon.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I will be able to play games with Grandma more easily if I don't have to worry about doing them today.

I have lots of chores that I have to do tomorrow. I can't stay here all day. My mom will kill me if I don't get out!

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. My mom would yell at me for not doing them right. She said that I should be watching TV instead of cleaning the house. I wanted to watch TV more than anything else in the world.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. My mother took me outside to play. She gave me a piece of paper with directions on how to watch TV.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. I was tired. My mom was angry. She told me to go outside and play. I did what she said, but then she cried when I didn't come back home for dinner.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. I sat by the fire. I saw the moonlight dance across the sky. The stars shone brightly.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. I didn't want to watch TV. I wanted to be alone.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. My mom told me that if I didn't watch TV, then she'd throw me out of the house. She said there was nothing worse than being a bad girl.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. My mom always told me that I should not watch TV until after I did my chores. She said that watching TV could make me lazy.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. My mom always told me that if I did them well, then I could watch TV later.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. I had to wash dishes. My mom washed my clothes. She put them away neatly. I liked her so much that I wanted to be like her forevermore.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. I didn't want to watch TV. I wanted to play games. My mommy said that if I wasn't playing by sundown, then she'd have to take me outside and beat me until I played.

I had to do my chores before I watched TV. My mom worked hard for everything she got. She didn't have many friends, but she always smiled when she saw them. When I was done doing my chores, I went back to watch TV.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We had no one to blame but ourselves for our misfortunes.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We had to do the dishes together. She washed our hands, and I scrubbed them clean. I felt dirty after doing that task.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We cooked our meals together. We played games for hours. I loved playing hide-and-seek with you. You always found something in your room that I had not yet discovered.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We had chores like picking up leaves from the sidewalk, or digging out holes for trash bags. Sometimes we didn't have any chores, but that wasn't unusual.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We had to pick up sticks from the ground. They were round and soft. We used them to make bridges across the river.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We had no money for food. When we ate, we ate from the same pot. We didn't have enough to buy any new clothes or shoes.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We each had our own room. My mother cooked for us. She loved cooking. She liked to eat, too, but she didn't like to waste food.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We worked hard for our food. The cat ate well. She had plenty of meat on her bones. Her fur was soft and silky as she slept.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We had to be careful though, because if one of us did not do their share, they would get beaten up. I hated doing the dishes.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We had to get up early in the morning, clean the house, and help Grandma with her cooking. She cooked for us all.

We split the chores amongst ourselves so we shared the workload. We had fun doing them together.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She always makes sure that we have enough food for all of us. We eat together every day.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She likes that I love her. We play together. Sometimes, we do things together.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She likes the smell of the dirt. I love her too much not to do them.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She is always looking for ways to help me. We are best friends now.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She likes to watch me clean up after her. Sometimes she says I'm too quiet when I do it.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She likes when I help her. Sometimes, we play together. We play hide-and-seek, or chase each other around the house.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She always says it's fun for her. She gets mad when I do them. Sometimes, she yells at me. I'm not sure why, because she never does that before.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She says we should all be good people. We're not bad people.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She says I'm very smart. Sometimes she takes me to the park. We play hide-and-seek, chase each other around the park. When we're playing, she always has a big smile on her face.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She likes the dirtiest things. We go out and play. Sometimes we sleep together.

I don't like doing the chores, but she loves it. She says it's what keeps us from being hungry. We have to do them every day.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. I have no idea why. Every once in awhile, I look around my room and wonder what's there. Sometimes, I go over to my bed and stare at myself in the mirror.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. My mother always said that if I didn't do it, she wouldn't let me go out. She told me to clean up my room every day.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. I have no choice but to do it. My mother always said that if I liked doing something, then I should like it more. She told me not to worry about what other people thought of me or how others saw me.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. I am always too scared. I like to read or watch TV. Sometimes, when I'm reading, I hear a noise from the other side of the wall.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. I am too scared to go near the bathroom. I like to play games in my room.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. I have no idea what I'm doing. My mother has told me that I should be learning how to read. She said it's important for me to learn about the world around me.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. My mother would yell at me for not doing it right. She would scold me when I did it wrong. I hated her.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. I hate doing it. My mother said that if I didn't do it, she'd take away my toys. She told me that she loved me, but her job was to look after me.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. My mother always said that if I didn't do it, someone else would have to clean it for me. I had to look after myself when my father went out.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. My mother never cleaned my room. She said that if I wanted clean clothes, then I should go out and get them myself.

My least favourite chores is cleaning my room. I have no idea what's dirty or clean. Every now and then, I see something that reminds me of home.

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We have to get up early in the morning. If we don't, then we'll be late for school.

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We don't have much food. I want to eat something now. If you give me some more food, I'll be happy!

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We don't have much food. I want to eat some meat.

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We don't get much time anymore. Grandma has been getting sicker lately. She's been coughing up blood. Her eyes are always red and puffy from crying.

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We need to clean up the house.

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We had to clean up the kitchen, and sweep the floor. My mom told us that if we did our chores well, then we could go play.

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We have to clean up the house. Mommy is tired from work. She doesn't like to cook, but she likes to eat.

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We are not allowed to touch each other. If you want to touch me, then you must do your chores first.

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We have to clean up this house. Grandma has been neglecting us lately. She said that she had to take care of her sick mother.

We have to do chores before we can go and play. We don't want to get sick. My sister is always complaining about how tired she is. She doesn't like doing any of our chores because she says they're boring.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She tells me that I am not good enough for her. I want to run away from home.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She said if I didn't like it, I could leave.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She says it's for your own good. I wish she had said something else.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She says that I am not good enough for them. They are too hard.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She said that if I didn't like it, then I could leave. When the sun rose, I saw a black cloud in the sky. Grandma told me not to worry about it. It's just a storm.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She has no idea what I'm doing. But, I like her anyway.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She says it will teach me discipline. I hate doing them.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She says that if I don't do them well, then she'll beat me.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She says that if I don't do them well, then she'll punish me. I know this is wrong, but I can't help it.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She said that if I didn't do them well, then she'd hit me.

As punishment Grandma makes me do the chores every morning. She said that if I didn't do them well, then she wouldn't give me candy.

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We will be back soon.

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We are going to play hide-and-seek. You must find me! Go to the back room of this house. When you see me, come out and say "I found you!" Then run home as fast as you can.

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We will be back soon.

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We will go play until we are tired. Then, we will eat dinner together.

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. Grandma said that there are lots of things for us to see when we go out into the world. She told me to be careful.

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We'll find something fun to do!

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We are playing hide-and-seek. You have to find me!

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We can play for hours!

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We will go play in the garden. Mommy said that we could play there all day if we wanted.

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We have nothing else to do.

We have no more chores to do today, so we can go play now. We should all go play together. Let's go!

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He stared at me from the wall. His skin was white as snow. He had long black hair that fell past his shoulders.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He had no teeth. His skin was pale and smooth like that of a ghost. He stared at me from under his hooded robe.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He had no legs, but he could walk around like a man. His face was pale as snow. He walked along the wall with a cane.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He was crazy. I wanted to run away from him.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He stood there, staring at me. His hair was black and brown. He wore a red suit, with white shirt and yellow tie.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He had a smile on his face. His mouth was wide open, revealing teeth that were yellow and white.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He stared at me, and then he laughed. I had never seen him laugh before. I could not understand why he did this.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He had a face like a flower that has been cut too short. His skin was pale and smooth. I watched him for awhile, but he didn't move.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He had a red face and black hair. His teeth were crooked, but he smiled. He walked along the road, looking at trees and bushes.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He had no soul. His face was white as snow. The moonlight shone upon him, but he did not move.

The insane look in his eyes made me shudder. He stood there, staring at me. His skin was pale white. A knife hung from his hand. I could smell him. He smelled like death.

@You're insane for thinking this will work,@ she said. @I'm not crazy!@ you say. You don't know what you're talking about.

@You're insane for thinking this will work,@ she said. @I don't care if you think this is funny. You can't go back to your room now. This isn't over yet.

@You're insane for thinking this will work,@ she said. @I'm sorry, but you have to leave. You can't stay here. I'll make sure nobody comes after you,@ he replied.

@You're insane for thinking this will work,@ she said. @I'm not even sure if you can survive this,@ he replied.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He lived there for years. His name was Frank, but everyone called him "the madman." Everyone said he was crazy.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He died there.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He died there. His family never saw him again. They thought he had gone mad from his stay in the asylum.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He had no family or friends. His name was George. He was a good person who loved his mother very much.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He was given pills that he swallowed. They gave him more pills. He became crazy from the pills, and died.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He lived there for years. He had many voices inside his head. They all said he should kill himself.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He had been diagnosed with schizophrenia. His family thought he was crazy. They tried to get him help, but no one could do anything about his condition.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He had been a very good man before he became insane.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He was a nice man. He had a wife and two children. They lived in a house that they built themselves. The man loved his family very much.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He lived there alone. His name was Henry. When he died, his wife Mary took him home to die too. She had no children, but she loved her husband very much.

The man was moved into an insane asylum for mentally ill people. He was not well. When he died, his family tried to take care of him. They did not know how to do that.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He screamed, "I'm going to kill you!" I tried not to cry out.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He had no legs. His body was thin and wiry like that of a monkey. His face was small and ugly, but he smiled when he laughed. He had two black eyes, which seemed to be staring right into your soul.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He had no arms or legs. His body was covered in a thick fur. I could see the blood running from his mouth.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He screamed and howled like a madman. His body shook, but he didn't move.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He screamed like a madman. I thought he was going to jump out of the window.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He screamed like a madman. His body shook and he howled.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He had no legs. His face was like that of a man who has been bitten by a snake. He sat there, staring at you, and he screamed out his words.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He was sitting in a chair, staring at me. His hair was black and white. His teeth were yellowed and crooked. He had a strange smile on his face, but he didn't say anything.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He had no legs. His arms were too skinny, and he had no tail. He walked on two feet, but only because he could walk on his toes.

He was insane, and his eyes flashed with a terrifying madness!. He could see everything that happened in this house.

You're insane if you think I'm going to go play in the rain. You can't even walk through the door without getting wet!

You're insane if you think I'm going to go play in the rain. You'll never get wet!

You're insane if you think I'm going to go play in the rain. You don't know what's waiting for you out there.

You're insane if you think I'm going to go play in the rain. You don't know what's waiting for you outside.

You're insane if you think I'm going to go play in the rain. You can't even get wet!

You're insane if you think I'm going to go play in the rain. You're also crazy if you think I'll just leave you alone.

You're insane if you think I'm going to go play in the rain. You'll get wet!

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. I saw that there were other people living in this house. They had their own lives. Their own families. I could see them too, but they didn't look like me.

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. I had no one. My mother died when I was very young. My father never came back from his journey. He was lost in the jungle. I don't know what happened to him.

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. A voice came from behind me. "Hey! Hey!" It said.

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. I had no idea what this place was like. I didn't know if there were other people out here, or even animals. What did they eat? Did they have any houses? How did you get food? Where were the bathrooms?

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. I sat up from the floor. My eyes widened when I saw a dark figure standing over me. It's face was covered by its hooded cloak.

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. My mom said that if I ever wanted to go anywhere, I had to be with her. She told me that she didn't like leaving me by myself because I wouldn't listen to anything she did.

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. I knew that there were other people out there. Maybe they had been waiting for me.

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. My parents never told me what happened when they found out that I had gone missing. They didn't know where I went, or why.

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. I saw a man standing in front of me. He had red hair, and wore a blue suit. His eyes seemed to be shining in the moonlight.

I suddenly realized how insane I was for coming here all alone. I had no one to help me. I sat down beside the road. The sun shone bright on me, but it did not warm me up.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. He had no idea what he was doing, but he did know how fast he could go.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. The car had been modified to make it faster than any other car. The driver drove the car like he was driving a rocket ship. He went from place to place, and never stopped talking about his experiences.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. It was like watching a train go by. The car had been painted red, and was called the Red Baron.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. He had to be careful not to hit anything, but he was fast. I saw him go by.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. The car was green, and had a large red stripe across its side. It raced around the track. A man sat behind the wheel of the car. He wore a black suit, with white shirt, and brown tie.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. He had to be careful, because if he went too fast, his head might explode.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. He had no control over his car. His eyes were wide open, but he didn't know what to do. He tried to turn the radio up high, but there wasn't any music that suited him.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. He had been driving for years, but he hadn't driven in months. His eyes were red and puffy from crying.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. It had a red stripe on its side.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. One day, he crashed his car. He was injured badly. His face was broken. He had a black eye and a big gash across his forehead.

The racecar could reach insane speeds, frankly it was terrifying even for the driver. The car was fast, but not too fast. I watched it go by.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. A large brick fell from the sky and smashed into my house. My father screamed when he saw it. He yelled for his wife to come out of her room. She came out, but she had no clothes on.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. I watched as the giant machine smashed through the brick wall. The bricks crunched under its weight.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. My father worked there. He had a big smile on his face. When he came home from work, I saw him working hard in the garden.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. I saw the rubble pile up. It seemed like forever before it stopped.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. A big brick fell. It hit me hard in the head. My eyes rolled up into my head and I went limp.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. The wind blew away the dust. A man went to work on his machine. He had a big grin on his face.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. A large piece fell. I saw it fall. It hit me hard in the head. My vision blurred for a moment, but then came back clear.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. My mother worked hard for her money. She had to work all day, then go back home and cook dinner. Sometimes, she got angry with me when I didn't do what she said.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. When the dust settled, there was nothing but rubble. The old house stood like a monument to destruction.

The wrecking ball was used to demolish the old building. It had been there for years. My grandfather told me about it when he was young. He said that if you went up to the top of the building, you could see the sky.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They didn't even take the children's toys. I remember looking out the window of the house. It was dark outside, but there was light inside.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They smashed the windows and doors. They threw bricks at the walls. I saw their faces. Their eyes burned like fire, but they did not look angry or sad. They just stared blankly ahead, as if nothing had happened.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They threw bricks through the windows. I watched from behind the fence. The sky was blue. I saw a bright light, and then everything went dark again.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They ripped out the door, and then they tore apart the walls. They smashed windows, and pulled up boards. Then they dug under the ground, and started digging a hole.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They threw bricks at the walls until they fell apart. Then, they dug holes in the ground and covered them with dirt.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They tore it apart. I saw the bodies of the people who lived there. They had been killed by some sort of disease that spread through their bodies.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They burned it all. I watched from afar as they tore the house apart. I could hear the screams of people inside.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They dug up the ground and covered it with dirt. Then they built a wall around the house.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They burned everything. I saw the fire. It was bright red and hot. The flames licked up the sky.

It took them only a few hours to demolish the house. They did not leave much behind. A few pieces of wood and some bricks lay here and there. The house had been empty for years now.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He hid his cards under the floorboards. They tore the house apart until they found them.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He was not there when we arrived. We did not know what he looked like. The next day, I tore up his card game board.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He had put them together like a jigsaw puzzle. They were too hard for me to solve. I couldn't figure out how to get rid of the cards.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He had been so proud when he saw his masterpiece. He never did like playing poker, but he loved making people laugh.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He had hidden all the cards in his room. They tore up the floor and ripped out the walls. David's father came home from work that day, and he sat down to play with his son.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He had a great love for playing cards. He loved them so much that he built his own deck of cards out of cardboard and felt like a king when he played.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He had built it with love. I knew he loved me. We played together every day for years.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He had been playing for hours. His hand was a jumble of colors. My eyes glazed over when he played his last card.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He had made them like a puzzle. They had been so clever.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He had been very good at it. They destroyed his home. His mother was angry, but she did not cry out. She just sat there quietly and watched her son destroy the house of cards he'd built for himself.

The class demolished the house of cards David had so carefully made. He had been very proud of his work.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His mother sat him in the backseat and told him stories. She was a pretty woman who wore red. Her hair was brown and her eyes were blue.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His eyes were red and swollen. They were staring out the window. He looked sadder than usual.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His face was burned up, and he could not eat or drink for days. He had to learn how to walk again.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His mother bought him a red one. She said he could be anything he wanted to be.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. He never drove this one before. His eyes were always sad when he talked about his parents.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His mother gave him a lot of money for the car. She told him that he could use it to go out and get food or something.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His mother told him he could have his old one if he paid for it. He couldn't afford to pay for a new car. He didn't want to drive any other way than this one way.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His name was Johnny. He sat in his car for hours, and then he drove away.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His face was covered in bruises. He wore a bandage around his head.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His father drove him to the dealership. They took his picture.

His car was demolished in the accident. He had to buy a new car. His name was James. He sat behind the wheel of his car, and drove home.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. The house burned to ashes. I could hear the screams of people inside. They died from their burns, or they were killed by the explosion.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. A bomb went off inside the house. It destroyed everything. My grandpa was killed when he opened his door to see what was happening. He died instantly.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. It was destroyed. The whole house shook. I could hear the explosion.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. I saw the ruins. They burned. I could hear the screams of people who died. I cried for them all.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. The house burned to ashes. My grandfather lived there when he was young. He told me about his father's days living there.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. I saw the building explode. The house was destroyed.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. The explosion destroyed everything. I could see the smoke from the fire. A dark cloud covered the sky.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. I watched as the house collapsed. The ground shook, and I screamed. A man came out from the rubble with his hands covered in dust. He had black hair, and wore a suit of armor that was too big for him.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. The building collapsed. I saw the house burn.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. The house was torn apart. The walls crumbled. I saw the destruction that took place there.

The old mansion was demolished by the explosive device. I watched from afar as the house burned. A man came out of the burning building, holding a gun. He had a face like a mask. His eyes were red and bloodshot.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. The walls fell in. I saw the wreckage. I wanted to cry out in terror, but I couldn't move. My eyes were closed, and my mouth was open wide.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. The rubble fell to the ground. I saw it fall.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. I saw the smoke rise up. A man came out from under the rubble. He had no clothes on, but he wore a white suit. His hair was short and his eyes were black as coal.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. The rubble fell to the ground. I saw a man run away from the wreckage. He wore a hooded cloak, and he had black hair that hung over his eyes.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. It fell apart. I watched from afar as it collapsed.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. I watched as it hit the ground. It exploded. Pieces of glass flew everywhere. The pieces hurtled through the air, hitting other buildings. They broke windows and shattered roofs, but they didn't stop there!

The wrecking ball demolished the building. The house fell apart. My mother cried for her home. She ran out of the door and hid behind a tree. Her tears fell like raindrops on the ground.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. The ground shook. My eyes were closed, but I could see everything.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. The bricks fell like rain. I watched the rubble pile up. A small child cried out from under a blanket. He was cold and hungry, but he wanted to stay warm.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. I watched from the window. The building was tall and dark. It stood there for years, but never did anything useful.

The wrecking ball demolished the building. It fell apart. I watched it crumble.

Her chances of becoming mayor were demolished by the scandal she was involved in. She lost her job. Her husband died. She became depressed and lost all hope for the future.

Her chances of becoming mayor were demolished by the scandal she was involved in. She had been caught having an affair with her secretary. He died from his injuries. Her husband was furious that he didn't get to marry her first, but then again, she never did become mayor after all.

Her chances of becoming mayor were demolished by the scandal she was involved in. She lost her job, and had to move out of town. Her house burned down. She cried over the loss of her home.

Her chances of becoming mayor were demolished by the scandal she was involved in. She lost her position as mayor. Her husband died in office. Her son became a drunkard and died young. Her daughter was killed in a car accident.

Her chances of becoming mayor were demolished by the scandal she was involved in. She had been caught having an affair with her secretary. He was a man who worked for the mayor's wife.

Her chances of becoming mayor were demolished by the scandal she was involved in. She was replaced by her opponent.

Her chances of becoming mayor were demolished by the scandal she was involved in. She lost her job. Her husband died in a car accident. They had three children. One of them is me.

Her chances of becoming mayor were demolished by the scandal she was involved in. She lost her job. Her husband died. She became depressed and suicidal. A few years later, she committed suicide by jumping from the second floor of a building.

Her chances of becoming mayor were demolished by the scandal she was involved in. She lost her job, and was fired from her job. Her husband died when she was young.

They demolished the old theatre and built a parking lot. I saw the new building. It was ugly, but I liked its lights. They shone bright and warm on the cold winter nights.

They demolished the old theatre and built a parking lot. They put up a sign that said "No Dogs Allowed." I wanted to go inside. I sat on the ground and waited for them to bring me in.

They demolished the old theatre and built a parking lot. They tore up the grass and planted trees. A new building is now there.

They demolished the old theatre and built a parking lot. They gave me a car when I turned four years old. I had fun driving around town.

They demolished the old theatre and built a parking lot. They also built a new one. A large sign read "Parking Lot." The old building had been torn down years ago.

They demolished the old theatre and built a parking lot. They put up a new one. A man sat on the curb. He wore a suit and tie. His hair was neatly combed back.

They demolished the old theatre and built a parking lot. They didn't build the parking lot. They just tore up the old theatre and put in a new one.

They demolished the old theatre and built a parking lot. They put up a sign that said "No Pets Allowed." A man walked by, and I saw him walk away from the building. He had a big grin on his face.

They demolished the old theatre and built a parking lot. I watched from the sidewalk. A car drove by, and then another. They didn't stop for me.

Your little brother stepped on your model city and demolished it again.q You stood there for a moment, staring at the ruins. Then you laughed. He had destroyed his own city twice! What did he do next?

Your little brother stepped on your model city and demolished it again.q He went back to his room and cried.

Your little brother stepped on your model city and demolished it again.q He laughed as he did this.

Your little brother stepped on your model city and demolished it again.q He is very clever. You are very proud of him.

Your little brother stepped on your model city and demolished it again.q He then blew up the whole town. You could not stop him.

Your little brother stepped on your model city and demolished it again.q He laughed when he saw you. You looked sad. He smiled at you.

Your little brother stepped on your model city and demolished it again.q He said he wanted to destroy the world.

Your little brother stepped on your model city and demolished it again.q You could not stop him. He was very angry.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. I ate all that was in front of me. I had no idea what I did wrong.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. I ate the whole thing. My stomach growled loudly.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. My hunger was insatiable. I tore apart the food and ate it all up.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. I had eaten a piece of bread that was too big for me.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. I ate everything that wasn't nailed down. My stomach growled and screamed. I wanted to eat more, but I couldn't get enough food.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. I ate everything that was there. I tore apart the world around me.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. My stomach growled. I had to eat something!

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. I ate the whole thing.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. I ate it all up.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. I ate the whole thing. I felt like I had been eating for days.

I was so hungry demolished my meal in the blink of an eye. I ate the food. I bit into the meat, and tasted its flavor. My stomach growled, but I couldn't stop eating.

