There was a small chink in the ceiling through which a faint light was shining. The prisoner looked up. He was grateful for the sun. He had been stuck in the dungeon for so long, he had almost forgotten what it looked like.

He looked carefully: there was a chink in the armour of his opponent. He leapt forward, and swung his huge sword at the gap. He knew that if he hit, he would win the fight.

My mother was shouting at the store employee. "There is a chink in this table. I won't buy it!" she said. She shouted so loudly that the salesman looked frightened. I was used to it though.

There was a large chink in the helmet of the famous bike rider. He said that it came from an accident he was in. He was brave, and fast on his bike. I wanted to be like him when I was older.

The explosion in the classroom left a chink in the desk. The teacher said it would never be fixed. He blamed me for it. I didn't regret it though. The explosion had been really exciting!

The enemy was surrounding the castle with their troops. They cut off the food supplies. They were waiting for us to give up. I gave the signal for the archers to fire.

I led my troops into battle, riding on a horse. They followed me bravely, preparing to attack the enemy. We were surrounded, but we would fight to the last breath.

In World War I, the troops fought in holes in the ground. They were called trenches. The men would dig the trenches, then put their guns there. They would sometimes run out of the trench. They would run at the enemy. Many of them died tragically.

Most armies have troops in the air, on land, and in the water. The troops in the air are called the airforce. The troops on the ground are the infantry. The troops in the water are the navy.

From the hill, I could see the troops advancing. They were scary, and their armour was dark. They moved quickly, and they looked well-trained.

When the rain fell, the crops grew. It was a time of great prosperity in the country. Everyone ate very well. There was lots of bread to go round.

The leader brought prosperity to his country. All his people enjoyed great feasts and parties. He was very popular. Everyone praised him for his actions.

The clever banker saved money in times of prosperity. He knew that when things got worse, he would have money. In the future, he would be safe.

I had finally reached my goal of prosperity. I had plenty of money, and my family would never be hungry. It was time to relax. I could enjoy the fruits of my hard work.

When the shops closed, it was an end to the times of prosperity. It was harder to find work. Food was scarcer. People were worried about the future.
