I prefer eating pork to chicken. Pork tastes much better. Also, I hate chicken skin.

The pork tasted great in a sandwich. I thanked my grandmother for making it for me.

I saw a photo of a beautiful swamp with lots of lovely coloured birds. The birds were flying overhead, and landing in the trees.

The swamp was filled with amazing life. There were fish, and insects. It was muddy, so I couldn't see much.

There was a horrible smell coming from the swamp. I didn't like it, so I went away.

I was bitten by a snake in the swamp. It was hiding in the water. Then it leapt out and bit my leg.

They found the boat in the swamp. It had been left there. It was slowly going underwater.

I stepped into the swamp, but lost my shoe in the water! I knew I would never find it again.

In the stew there was beef, chicken and pork. There was rice, and there were vegetables too. It was a great meal.

The ghost story made me shiver. It was a long, scary story. I was glad I was safe and warm at home.

The children were shivering from fear. The scream in the night had been sudden.

The girl shivered with cold. The snow was falling, and she was outside in a dress. The snow landed on her legs.

The men were shivering because they were so cold. They were digging snow in the garden. Their hands were shaking.

The film was so scary that I started shivering. The monster leapt at the screen, making me jump. I turned it off- it was too scary!

There was a submarine in the ocean. It was looking for fish deep in the water.

Some visitors go underwater in a submarine. They are looking for rare fish and sharks. The submarine has windows to look through.

The little boy dreamt that he was in a submarine. He imagined going under the water. When he woke up, he was sad.

I jumped into the submarine and closed the door. I wanted to go deep into the water. I wanted to see amazing things.

During the war, submarines would sink ships. They would swim underneath, and fire underwater missiles. There are still war submarines in use today.

The stew had pork meatballs. There was enough for the whole family. We started to eat happily.

I love all meat, but especially pork! Pork can be crispy or soft. It tastes good with everything.
