

#rudimentary

Founder of the Christian Church, whose teachings built upon those of Jewish scripture, were to become the most rudimentary teachings of modern Christianity.
Roland was a talented swordsman for someone with such a rudimentary education, and besides that he was only sixteen years old.
Paper was first invented in China at around the year 105, and by the 7th century the Chinese had rudimentary printing presses.
A nice example of a rudimentary attempt at art from the fossil record is the shape of this trilobite that looks vaguely like something.
Although the elements of technology had been around since ancient times, it wasn't until the nineteenth century that these were combined to create the rudimentary forms of what we think of as technological inventions.
The English settlers on the island of Roanoke are known to have had rudimentary medicine supplies with them when they landed.
The state of medicine in the Middle Ages was rudimentary; many medical professionals spent their time attempting exclusively to treat and cure the illnesses that plagued the local population.
The earliest attempts at quantum theory involved making a large number of very basic assumptions, many of which were rudimentary, to say the least.
The theory of evolution is based on the idea that life began on Earth much smaller and more rudimentary than it is today.
Despite the rudimentary stage of medicine in the 18th century, the remedies used seem to have been fairly effective.
He was fascinated by things mechanical and rudimentary forms of laboratory equipment interested him greatly.
In the Middle Ages, the Catholic Church had only rudimentary understanding of human anatomy.
While the rest of us spent our time playing sports and video games, he was studying the rudimentary principles of education.
Shocked by the sheer scale of the destruction of life in his hometown, he set out on a research paper to see if there was a way to prevent such a tragedy from occurring again
Although the government had only rudimentary administrative functions, the basic framework was set up for it to grow in complexity as time went on.
The invention of the printing press at the end of the 15th century and its spread in the 16th century helped information to prevail over ignorance.
Wolves have smaller teeth than other carnivores, and the teeth of wolves are relatively easy to identify by size.
The rudimentary tools they had were stone or wooden.
At the time, the most rudimentary of communication skills, such as understanding the value of a good road system and a postal service, was beyond them.
Although he was far from being an accomplished statesman, Pericles was a great leader during the time of the first Attic War, due to his rudimentary knowledge of warfare tactics.
The current rudimentary AI possessed by robots lacks creativity and is limited within narrow constraints.
In its rudimentary form, the guillotine was used to execute convicted criminals in France from 1792 until 1977.
The only rudimentary networked computers at the time were present at US defense department labs.
The tools of hunting and gathering that were the rudimentary predecessor of the modern glove date back to at least 24,000 years ago.
Although the church has often attempted to suppress them, magic and other practices involving the metaphysical have often thrived on superstition and tribal beliefs.
The art of making fire is one of the most rudimentary skills necessary for human survival.
Stem cell research has made rudimentary steps towards development since its highly contested inception in 1998.
Jennifer had a rudimentary knowledge of medicine due to taking a few college courses, but she didn't have anywhere near the expertise of a real doctor.
Strictly speaking, humans have always had an emergent understanding of their own existence and interaction, rudimentary language abilities and a desire to make more of themselves.
At the time of its publication, parts of the periodic table, developed by Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev, were already believed to be in need of reorganization.
Without the invention of the microscope we would not have been able to see and therefore understand the rudimentary function of cells.
The Domesday Book, a voluminous 11th-century record of England's landed assets held in the British National Archives, contains a number of rudimentary drawings and notes concerning individual regions.
Isaac Newton, a prominent mathematician and physicist in the 17th century, transformed the way the world thought about science with his laws of motion, theories of light and pioneering work in mathematics.
The "rudimentary" types of organ are present in all animals.
His knowledge of microbiology and rudimentary understanding of genetics enabled him to make great advances in the medical field.
Stone tools are the most rudimentary of all tools and weapons; they date back to around 2.6 million years.
The principal problem of any humanoid robot is the absence of an ability to use tools and weapons.
The nervous system is necessary for basic bodily functions such as regulation of the heartbeat, control of the muscles, and maintenance of the digestive system.
The organization was a loose network of spies and informants whose rudimentary methods would be completely ineffective in stopping modern threats such as Al Qaeda.
He had a rudimentary understanding of medical science, having studied it for less than a year before deciding it wasn't for him.
It's definition is 'very simple', and its use in the following sentence is to emphasize that cars are not as complex or advanced as many think them to be.
The philosopher died at the age of 549 and his ideas dominated intellectual thought for many centuries thereafter.
At a very young age, she had already developed a rudimentary understanding of musical instruments.
Many of the practices we now take for granted were rudimentary at best.


#sanguine

The British often displayed a very sanguine attitude towards the war.
The Latin saying "Fortune favours the bold" is still sometimes associated with a sanguine approach to the world.
Despite his sunny disposition, Franklin's views on marriage are ultimately quite sanguine; he believed that it was a necessary evil, and that one should not indulge in romantic love if one can help it.
She appears to be very confident and sanguine about her new position.
The ending world is neither to be despaired over nor to be desired for its own sake, since both the good and the wicked will perish together in its flames and the hope of resurrection is kept fore for the virtuous.
He was a rebellious and sanguine young man, the exact opposite of his older brother.
I am probably too sanguine about our future, but I expect Ian to achieve something great.
The sanguine are the sort of people who think everything is going to be okay and everyone is their friend.
They thought that people who were sanguine were more inclined to seek after knowledge in the first place, which is why they tended to find themselves in university, while those who were choleric were motivated more by money so they did jobs such
Although we foresaw several potential problems with our plan, we were overall sanguine about its chances of success.
He was a British politician in the late 16th and early 17th centuries who reputedly never lost his temper, even when faced with disaster or defeat.
The Prime Minister was typically optimistic and sanguine about the future of their country.
Your sanguine nature means that you are positive and optimistic about your future, and this shows in your demeanour.
There had always been pessimists in human history, even in the largely prosperous and egalitarian society that followed the rebellion on Earth, but they had been balanced by sanguine views.
Her outlook on life was always rather sanguine, while the rest of us would complain about the difficult conditions, she would always point out how fortunate we were to be able to study at Oxford at all.
His sanguine, or positive outlook on life, helped the people in his community to persevere in adverse conditions.
Indeed, sanguine attitudes were common among the general public, as evinced in contemporary newspapers that continued to publish as usual.
His reassurance was sanguine, or at least it would have to suffice.
Sanguine is a word for optimistic or having a positive outlook on life.
The religious tensions that had been mounting for centuries were brought to a head when the Dutch William of Orange was placed on the throne as King William III of England.
The sanguine attitud
You ask for a sentence with the word "fallacy".
Her cheery disposition is a stark contrast to your own, which is sanguine and cynical about the future.
Speculation in modern-day financial markets is a high-risk activity, and most people are not sanguine about their prospects.
The sanguine view of the French Revolution by its proponents was that it would overthrow monarchy and establish a new order, based on the ideals of liberty, equality and fraternity.
The Sanguine Order was a powerful, but short-lived elite organisation of knights during the medieval era.
As a person usually optimistic, or in a cheerful mood, he looked sanguine about the landscape before him.
The island's sunny weather and excellent beaches attract people of all ages, most of whom are filled with the joys of youth and are thus quite sanguine about the future.
The senator, with his unshakable belief in the greatness of America's future and his unwavering faith in the Constitution, is a sanguine character.
Many of the inhabitants are sanguine about the changes, as there are plenty of new jobs and business opportunities opening up in the city.
The increasingly sanguine atmosphere within the lecture theatre is suddenly disrupted by the sound of alarm bells ringing loudly throughout the campus, and a voice over the tannoy announcing that the campus is on lockdown.
He was convinced that all would be well in the end; he was too sanguine, Too optimistic.
Those who were more sanguine hoped that a few victories would inspire the army as well as the people.
The outlook of supporters was decidedly sanguine prior to the game. There were not any realistic chances of winning, but a spirited come back was always within the realms of possibility.
He was a strong proponent of deterministic philosophies, such that human emotion and personality was completely resultant from innate biological impulses, a theory that fell out of favour in the Western world after Freud's critique of it in the 1960s.
He was always optimistic, even in the face of overwhelming odds and always was confident of success, traits which were seen as virtues in the Victorian Era.
The sanguine Taft's confident attitude towards the scandals made it difficult for them to have any serious impact on his Presidency.
However, in 1570 he became more confident and optimistic and rejected the sanguine views of human nature that had informed his early writings.
"Semper Fidelis", or "Always Faithful", is the motto of the United States Marine Corps and reflects a sanguine and idealistic attitude that Marines are expected to follow and demonstrate on the battlefield.
The sanguine outlook of Australia's Governor Macquarie was essential in stabilizing the colony after the loss of the penal transportation in 1840.
Sanguine: أَنْوَر
Sanguine: متاعب قَليل
A realist, Lermontov never succumbed to the romantic ideals of his fellow poets and for that reason he is a tremendously difficult poet to translate; his language is rich, complex and often wrought with a dose of black humour and a t
The general was hopeful that the situation would end in their favor, but most of his advisors were more sanguine of the chances of success.
Besides the destruction of the forests, London's rapid growth had contributed to the problem of poor air quality that made the city a health hazard.
He was a positive and sanguine person who only ever thought about the good things in life; he was rarely ever caught up in the race of competition or the quest for success that others were involved in.
Her lack of sanguine temperament is thought to be a factor in her failure to win the leadership in a decisive way.
The father of Jerome was a scholar, and his mother, Christian, was something of a society lady, and both were distinguished for their learning.
He tended to be sanguine about the future.
The sanguine players believed that their superior numbers would overwhelm us, but they made the classic mistake of failing to take into account the discipline of our soldiers.
His sanguine temperament tends to make him an optimistic person that believes everything will work out for the best.
He is very sanguine about the future of the company, believing that new technologies will improve people's lives.
The bloodshed of the revolting peasants would have been rampant had it not been for the efforts of the government representative who sought to resolve the situation in a peaceful manner.
However, the party's rigid control of arts causes many writers to channel their work into less censored and more prosperous avenues, such as cinema.
The new leader was much more of a sanguine personality, and he lifted the siege and returned home.
Despite the financial costs to the state, the US government remains sanguine about the future of US involvement in the Afghanistan conflict.
The adviser appears sanguine about the new director, saying that he's extremely competent and is simply going to take the company in a new direction.
The reason for this confidence was that both Alexander and his colleague, the Roman Emperor Constantine I, were sanguine enough to believe they and theirs would rule for all eternity.
Wendy, in keeping with her pessimistic nature, was cautiously sanguine about the team's chances of winning.
"We should be more than sanguine about our chances in the battle for Goriah." The warrior-monk said.
Having received encouraging reports from his spies, Charles was sanguine about the outcome of the battle, and did not believe that he would make a hasty retreat as his predecessor had done.
However, a more sanguine view of the future was taken by many others, who believed that great progress was inevitable.
Yet many of these people were optimistic.
The sanguine temperament is associated with a creative and courageous personality who often posses a strong will and high energy levels.
Professor: The governments in both nations were optimistic, and both countries were certain that they would win the war, which became increasingly likely to come.
The most sanguine outlook on the success of your planned trip is that you will all come down with a life-threatening case of scurvy.
Don't be so sanguine about the possibility of it happening within the next hundred years.
The sanguine view of his supporters is that the government will be back to normal in no time, mired as it is in corruption and incompetence.
He was a man of great optimism and tended towards being sanguine about everything.
However, the working classes were not as sanguine about their decreased standard of living and blamed the government for exploiting them.
While many of my friends are more sanguine about the situation, I'm afraid I just don't see any positives in the current political climate.
Although pessimistic in the short run, they were more sanguine about the long term possibility of peaceful relations with Britain
Sanguine portrait of Martin Luther, by an unknown artist.
The wealthy Roman Client Kings who ruled the Byzantine Empire in the early centuries of Christian history were sanguine about their position.
While some claim that he must have been aware of the inevitable Muslim victory in the Middle East and North Africa, it is more likely that he was more sanguine about Christian-Byzantine relations than events would prove to be.
Some sanguine observers think the report doesn't accurately describe the full extent of the epidemic.
In addition to being confi
Conceding the supremacy of the royalists, he pronounced that the republic was "dead", but like a fallen warrior, she would be mourned by her sanguine friends, not envy'd by her enemies.
As a result of the sanguine attitude of men such as Descartes, man was able to slowly mold the natural world to his needs.
World climate and conditions were probably more sanguine then than they are today; in the sense of being more favourable for life.
"The only person who doesn't seem to understand the seriousness of the situation is you. Please stop being so sanguine and help!"
The rebels were optimistic at first, thinking that they could overthrow the king with ease, but they soon became sanguine about their chances after their early victories.
"The sanguine people venture out to explore the island while the rest of us stay here,"
The result was democracy in ancient Athens, which was held up as a shining example by many Enlightenment thinkers, particularly in the eighteenth century.
"My own disposition is to be satisfied with the lot which God has allotted to me...let others boast themselves as they may, no man living can say I have ever grudged him satisfaction in any matter."
Her younger brother was a sanguine and easy-going child, but her sister was docile and timid.
However, John Calvin and other theologians advocating Reformed theology shed a more pessimistic light on human nature, which they saw as utterly corrupted by original sin.


#ambiguous

Your answer is ambiguous: both A and B could conceivably be correct.
The wording of the law is ambiguous; it can be interpreted in many different ways.
The term 'emperor' is one of the most ambiguous in history.
The term "French leave" is an ambiguous term which can refer to someone leaving a location in an inconspicuous way.
Reduction in the size of a tool, such as a wrench or pliers, tends to make the tool more useful for accuracy, but less useful for general purposes, as you have to be precise where you grab the item.
The term 'Semi-Presidential system' is in itself somewhat ambiguous as it defines the precise division of power between the President and Prime minister only in broad terms.
His use of ambiguous language to be able to support his political point of view is exactly what you would expect from a politician.
The legal teams for both the prosecution and the defense claimed that the laws were clear and not ambiguous.
The law in this country has always been ambiguous when it has come to first amendment cases.
The term "survival of the fittest," which is often associated with Charles Darwin, is a popular example of a misunderstood evolutionary concept that is actually inaccurate and misleading because of its ambiguity.
I don't understand the question, what do you mean by ambiguous?
The American political system is less ambiguous than that of the U.K and has a stricter separation between the three branches of government.
The new gun control laws are ambiguous and could be interpreted several ways which might lead to serious unintended consequences.
He gave an answer, but his reply was ambiguous and left you unsure of whether he knew the answer or not.
Any assignment of the year in which the document was written is sure be seen as ambiguous, as the establishment of dates in the Pre-Islamic Arabia is notoriously difficult
The word ambiguous has two meanings: unclear and open to more than one interpretation, and expressing more than one meaning in the same phrase.
The gentleman at the end of the bar is staring at you and the stare is almost certainly one of exasperation and not one of adoration.
His position on universal health care was ambiguous; he never stated whether he supported it or not, but he did campaign on the issue of health care reform.
Her use of ambiguous phrasing that could be interpreted multiple ways was evident in her speech yesterday.
Famously ambiguous, Washington's words could suggest that he intended to restore the republic long after he died.
The U.S. constitution is a very ambiguous document that can be interpreted in many different ways, and the judges have to use their discretion to decide the law.
The German constitution is an emotionally charged and ambiguous document, which was drawn up by the victors and has since been taken to court several times by the vanquished.
The future of the British monarchy is ambiguous. Its current form may cease to exit in the near future as republicans gains momentum.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau's concept of the social contract is an example of an ambiguous political thought.
One of the causes of The Great Depression was the ambiguity over whether the Federal Reserve would continue to supply banks with credit.
The sentence it could refer to the the fact that democracy is not an issue, and can be interpreted in many ways.
The lyrics of many songs are moody and ambiguous, leaving the listener to interpret their own meaning from them.
The piece contains no ambiguous words and its meaning is quite clear in any language.
The vagueness of the newly proposed laws has led to widespread public anger.
Without wishing to over-dramatize the problem, the whole situation at the moment is in some ways an emergency and it does have certain aspects that are rather ambiguous.
The term ‘slippery slope argument' is an ambiguous term because it can refer to a form of argument in which the predicate of the argument can be interpreted in more than one way.
The term "going postal" is thus ambiguous because it can either be referring to the employee, the act of violence itself, the actual location the act occurs or the cause of it.
The term 'taboo word' is ambiguous, since it can be interpreted in several ways.
The Geneva Convention is a landmark document in the efforts by humanity to prevent cruelty and atrocities during war.
In the years before the outbreak of the first world war, the European powers were engaged in a strategic arms build up, as they sought to enhance their respective power positions worldwide and at least maintain if not enhance their position in Europe.
There is an ambiguous relationship between the two.
Ambiguous toy safety warnings have been blamed for a number of children being hospitalised after choking on poisonous toys.
His remarks about the Prime Minister were ambiguous. He is alleged to have said, "The fool, what is he doing?" but he claims he said, "The flounder, what is it doing?"
The judge's writing in the law was so ambiguous that it required her peers to clarify exactly what she meant.
The term ‘terrorism' is often used in the press with great latitude and without due care or precision.
The term "terrorism" is in some cases too ambiguous to provide an accurate description of the subject.
The word "Bank," in the most modern sense of the word, is post-industrial revolution, however even the definition and appearance of banks changes significantly between different periods and regions.
With the status of the Holy Roman Empire as a Christian institution being somewhat ambiguous for centuries, each Holy Roman Emperor had to be able to wield substantial religious authority independent of the church.
The term "terrorism"
The U.S constitution's article two provides the procedure of the presidential elections, but it is ambiguous on who should count the electoral votes.
"The current legal situation is gray and ambiguous, and the State Department's advice range from incredibly strict to paranoid."
The term "wallpaper" is somewhat ambiguous in this painting. While the pattern is certainly visible on closer inspection, it blends fairly well with its surroundings from a more distant viewpoint.
The provisions of the constitution are not always clear or precise, leading to disputes and issues becoming increasingly ambiguous.
Literal translations are susceptible to multiple interpretation and hence often lead to ambiguous allusions.
The term 'Godspeed' was used by the astronauts as a polite way of addressing each other, yet its ambiguous nature allowed the speakers to simultaneously express friendly and condescending attitudes towards each other.
The provisions in the document were intentionally worded in an ambiguous manner so as to satisfy most parties.
The opening of the document had a passage written in an ambiguous language which could be interpreted a number of different ways.
The use of the term 'Empire' to describe the Roman State in these centuries is somewhat ambiguous, since throughout much of this period, it would be more appropriate to describe it as an 'Empire in name only'
Both sets of data are part of the problem. The figures in both cases are ambiguous and can be interpreted in several different ways.
It is important to realize that the definition of 'terrorism' is inherently vague and ambiguous.
A clear and unambiguous proposal was put to their representatives, but this was met with silence as the terrorists seemed to be waiting for something.
The term "public enemy" has been used to describe several groups of people, and is too ambiguous to be of any real use in this discussion.
The U.S constitution's definition of slavery and its position on the rights of African Americans was at the time an ambiguous statement on the issue.
A vague term that can mean several things is an ambiguous term, and if the law is to be coherent and meaningful, it must be precise and not vague.
In this sentence which you have just presented to me, the word "ambiguous" is itself ambiguous.
The meaning of the bill is pretty ambiguous, so its passage could lead to some messy lawsuits.
The term "terrorism" is deliberately ambiguous so that anyone can be labelled a terrorist depending on who is using it.
Some modern technologies, such as the internet and mobile phones, have made communication between people easier than ever before but simultaneous have made the transmission of threat-based communication safer than ever before.
The sentence, "I went to the shops and bought several apples and oranges," is simple, but the word "shops" is ambiguous; it could be a reference to a shop of some kind or a place that people go shopping.
Their demands were purposely vague and ambiguous so as to not alienate possible supporters.
The current tax laws give certain advantages to married couples over singles, but the criteria for establishing a marriage under the tax laws is ambiguous.
The politician's promise of lowering taxes was great news for the economy, but the vagueness of the proposal left many economists skeptical that it would actually help the environment.
The term "law" is very broad and can be applied to any rule, code or set of rules that a government chooses to enforce, and as such the term is open to wide interpretation and sometimes has unforeseen consequences.
Idiosyncrasies were ways of doing conventional things in an unconventional way.
The governor's intentions are unclear, as her recent policy announcements have been ambiguous.
The questions in this exam are not to be confused with a request for a clarification, but are intended to test whether you have an understanding of the material taught this year.
The lyrics of popular songs are often ambiguous, leaving the meaning of the song open to interpretation by the listener.
The term ‘big data' is somewhat ambiguous and means different things to different people
Most of the earliest Christian writings are considered to be ambiguous at best and dangerously heretical at worst.
The term "terrorist" is inherently difficult to define, and the accusation is even more problematic.
Due to factors such as ambiguous wording in the regulation itself, different interpretations by
The division in the Church on the one true meaning of Christ's message, simultaneously a division over one word, "phylarchos", was seen by many to be an unacceptable division of the Church.
Due to the ambiguity of the wording used in this document at the time, it was open to be interpreted in a number of different ways.
Due to the ambiguous nature of the last phrase "may God forgive you all"
The concept of warfare has remained almost the same for thousands of years: to gain more land and power through combat.
The term 'invasion' is perhaps too ambiguous to describe the nature of the conflict that took place.
The exact intent of the law was open to interpretation, so he ruled without defining the law.
The U.S. Constitution is often regarded as the central and most important governing document of the United States of America, but it is also one of the most ambiguous and open to interpretation.
There is a lot of ambiguous factor in your question. Is this a homework assignment or something?
The will's instructions were somewhat ambiguous, so the beneficiaries are having a hard time figuring out what exactly the dead man wanted to happen.
The term "altruism" as a scientific term has been criticised because it is used to describe a variety of different behaviours that are superficially similar but in fact have very different motives and outcomes.
The term 'gene' has always been somewhat ambiguous, as it can refer to several different concepts
He tried to get rid of the loophole, but the law remained as worded and so became open to widely different possible interpretations and so remained basically ambiguous.
Using allegory in novels allows the reader to insert their own opinion onto the characters and ideals which makes the writing style very flexible, however it also allows for a lot of room when it comes to changing the readers perception of an event.
The rules of the board game are ambiguous, and different people have different interpretations of them.
It is important in religious texts, such as the Bible and Qu'ran to maintain ambiguity in a number of areas, or else they would lose their ability to be interpreted in various ways to support different ideologies.


#arbitrary

The boundary decisions were made on very arbitrary grounds.
Unscientific and arbitrary parameters can often lead to incorrect conclusions in scientific research.
European colonialism was based on the governments' assertion that they had the right to rule over the natives arbitrarily.
The boundaries of the estate were purely arbitrary, drawn up by an 18th-century landowner who never even visited the area.
It wasn't an arbitrary decision, it was made after Joseph had spent at least six months on the project proposal.
Through this experience I learned that even our parents are capable of activities which might seem arbitrary and unfair to their children.
This results in a large degree of power and autonomy for the individual police officer, who can thus act in an arbitrary manner.
Despite of common misconception, interments in psychiatric hospitals were not done on an arbitrary basis, but only when the patients' family or caretakers could no longer bear with the burden of having sick people at home and needing to look after them
The way the boundaries are drawn are in themselves arbitrary, they could have easily been drawn slightly differently.
The introduction of the new law was an arbitrary decision on the part of the military government.
Arbitrary in its nature, the definition of a word is best left to reliable sources and accepted English dictionaries.
Our boundaries are set arbitrarily, and we don't want them to change because we've experienced a lot of success with them.
The process of choosing one interpretation over another is a complex and arbitrary one, depending on the perspective and experience of the reader.
The professor asks you for an example of a sentence that contains the word 'opinion'.
The laws of the country are arbitrary; a vast majority of the population breaking them on a regular basis.
The arbitrariness of his exclusion was striking.
The selection of two judges was inherently an arbitrary process, as the pool of potential candidates could have comprised anywhere between zero and a gazillion.
The King's decision to influence the judiciary in this way was considered arbitrary by many, and the precedent led to similar acts which contributed to the toppling of the monarchy centuries later.
Due to a quirk in the way statistics are collected, it is quite arbitrary as to when a new century begins.
In the middle ages, kings and emperors ruled their respective lands in an arbitrary manner, exercising power over life and death.
In law, an arbitary decision is one made on subjective rather than objective grounds.
The boundary-line between Canada and the United States was arbitrary, and had no basis in the reality of geography or Aboriginal land claims.
Some societies place so much stock by birth order that the first-born son of the ruling monarch is automatically given the title of prince or lord.
However, other theorists argue that the judicial system actually allows for arbitrary and inconsistent interpretation of the law.
Although the supreme magistrates of the colony were elected by the people, the right of eligibility was vested in a few and the choice was controlled by an
Whilst not all inventions are necessarily useful in a strict utilitarian sense, some inventions such as the light bulb can be considered largely positive contributions to humanity regardless of their lack of necessity because they improve the quality of human life and are major features in unimaginable
The use of Latin in legal matters was largely an arbitrary decision by the Norman ruling class.
The government's decision to take part in the war was made without a vote in parliament and seemed arbitrary to many observers.
The medieval practice of determining guilt or innocence solely on the basis of an inspection of objects such as bones, where the alleged crime took place, or even the accused's appearance was known as 'arbitrary' and was widely practiced in Europe.
The word 'early' before 'history' is somewhat arbitrary, since the period that is covered by a history book depends on which period of history one considers early and which one considers late.
The conspiracy theorists' decision to believe whatever they want to believe despite the lack of evidence for their claims is an excellent example of arbitrary reasoning.
Arbitrary arrests and detentions were common, torture was used to obtain confessions, and executions were commonplace.
In law, a judge has wide discretion to set the sentence of a convicted defendant within broad statutory bounds, based on the judge's assessment of what an appropriate sentence would be.
The Criminal Court of Bahrain has a long history of dismissing prosecutions on arbitrary grounds.
It is sometimes an arbitrary decision as to where exactly we draw the line between two different shades of similar colour.
The treaties also made the arbitrary national borders outside Europe illegal, with the goal of creating stable borders for all states.
The selection of a Latin rather than Ancient Greek or Middle Egyptian script for the modern alphabet derives ultimately from social and political factors, which are arbitrary in nature.
In the United States, people aged 16 to 18 are still somewhat restricted in their rights due to the 26th Amendment to the Constitution, which set the voting age at 18 and made it optional for states to set a lower minimum.
"The rules and laws of the time were quite arbitrary and they were also extremely biased so it is not surprising that Shakespeare would have to address this issue in his works.
I thought the report was detailed and thorough, but a lot of it seemed arbitrary and wasn't based on fact.
Due to the relatively small quantities of material available, it is impossible to draw any accurate conclusions about the nature of life on the island, let alone on Baghdad itself.
In law, an arbitrator is a person who listens to arguments from both sides in a dispute and makes a non-binding decision.
The university administration seemed to believe your admission was an arbitrary decision on the part of the department and hence refused to forward your admission to the dean.
However, despite these victories, the Mongols in China were approaching their peak and a new dynasty was to be established. This was to be known as the Ming Dynasty and would rule China for nearly 300 years, from 1368 to 1644.
Many cynics believe that ruling monarchs simply chose the arbitary dates of events like King John losing the Magna Carta or the execution of Charles I, without considering that they had religious or other significance at the time.
In law, the requirement that a piece of evidence linking a suspect to a crime be relevant to the case means that a judge can dismiss evidence he deems to be arbitrary.
The New York public library was designed and its location chosen almost arbitrarily by its founder, Stephen A. Schwarzman.
Some people believe that the international community should intervene in Iran; critics argue that the international community has no authority to do so and that any action would be arbitrary and capricious.
Some people don't agree with the decisions I have made, but I have tried to make them in an as objective and unbiased way as possible.
The boundary commission's decision to divide the city between the two states was arbitrary and unexpected.
The king's decision to implement a head tax was an arbitrary one, for the peasants were already burdened by constant requests for taxation.
However, there are some awards for team players in professional sports, like the Major League Baseball's World Series ring.
Due to technical limitations, there is often no way of determining what the original authors' intentions were, and translators are left to make arbitrary decisions on what the most appropriate translation is.
Nations can have their borders drawn in anyway that its rulers find convenient; that doesn't make those borders meaningful.
It was felt by the ruler that executing one of his generals was a good way of punishing him for his arbitrary behavior.
"The history department has always been a bit arbitrary about what is important in the development of Canadian history."
While he was a king, he didn't abuse his power like many others at that time did, which makes his rule look more like an aristocracy rather than a monarchy.
Arbitrary decisions by the leaders of the religion caused some dissatisfaction among the general population.
The boundary lines drawn between neighbouring kingdoms were often arbitrary and shifted repeatedly over the centuries.
While the govern
While the court has the power to interpret the law in an arbitrary manner, it is generally believed that justice must be seen to be done.
The arbitrator decides where the boundary should be established, which can lead to an arbitrary division of land
However, critics say that it was an arbitrary division and that any one of the 1000s of chemicals present could have been used instead to poison the victim.
Some grammarians of the eighteenth century believed that there were absolutes or certainties in language and that usage deviating from them was thus incorrect.
They argue that while there are some things government ought to prevent us from doing, many of the things on the list are arbitrary.
Still, unlike the other leaders, including Pitt and Castlereagh, Charles James Fox is sometimes criticised for having had little influence or impact on British foreign policy at this time; his policies being described as arbitrary and subject to change without notice.
However, the boundary between fact and fantasy is not clear, nor is the boundary between science and other ways of knowing.
The Kingdom of Cenetial was based on an arbitrary territorial concept.
In law, the term "arbitrary" is used to imply that something has been done without any sensible or rational grounds or explanation.
In law, arbitrariness is a lack of reasonable connection between the fact and the decision, or between the decision and the law.
As a self-proclaimed "reasonable person," you believe an education in philosophy will serve to sharpen your powers of reason and help you avoid being the victim of unchecked emotional baggage.
Due to the numerous arbitrary declarations made by Stalin, including arrests and executions of individuals based on unconfirmed suspicions, there was a lack of trust among the citizens.
The geographical division between North and South Korea is an arbitrary line that did not exist before 1945 and was only decided by the victorious Allies of World War II.
The decision to grant you special permission was made arbitrarily by the dean. She is in charge and can grants passes as she sees fit.
While the arbitrary discrimination on the basis of genetic information is currently illegal, there are many instances of this.
Before 1905, courts in Britain and the United States followed an "arbitrary" system.
The old king had ruled the country arbitrarily; he did not allow any criticism or opposing views in his presence.
The law decides which mountain range, river or coastline is the boundary between two nations, and then this boundary is imposed by force upon the people who live in the area
Some technologies, such as fire or speech do not have a single inventor because they develop gradually from the needs of everyday life so there is no single point when one can look at an invention and say this is the moment it was invented.
The boundary lines drawn between races, nations and religions are arbitrary social constructions, because in reality there are countless gradations that merge into each other.
A society in which people believe a democratic government to be preferable to other forms of government will then be least likely to resist tyrannical rule
Some would criticize this new system as being arbitrary, but it was thought to be a necessary compromise in order for the monarchy to survive.
However, even though the law may nominally be applied 'equally' to all citizens, it is not applied in an 'equal' manner due to personal prejudices and other arbitrary factors.
Universities, despite being institutions of great learning, seem to set completely arbitrary grade boundaries every semester.
Some people believe that social ordering is arbitrary, and that there should be no class distinctions between human beings.
Whether you think his conclusions were correct or not, I think its safe to say that he based his arguments on an arbitrary and subjective reading of the Bible, which is no doubt why he has been both lauded and vilified by later Christian thinkers.
Lisa: I found this hat at the thrift store, but I can't decide if it's cool or not.
A legal system in which judges are given excessive power to decide matters according to their own personal preferences
The borders of the countries are arbitrary; their inhabitants, especially in the city we're currently in, all speak the same language and have cultural similarities.
The selection of the republic rather than a hereditary dynasty was arbitrary and based on little more than an intuitive feeling that it would be better in the long run.
That is an arbitrary distinction; cats and dogs both share similar behavioral traits.
The international community is quick to condemn a government's use of the death penalty, even when it is applied arbitrarily.
In the Middle Ages, European law became increasingly arbitrary and unfair to most under its rule.
The borders of Europe are somewhat arbitrary, because a boundary is by nature a separation between two things.


#convoluted

The legal system has become unnecessarily convoluted to the average person.
His argument contained a convoluted chain of logic that even the most studious of students would have a hard time following.
The syntax and sentence structure of Middle English is often more convoluted than that of modern English as suggested by John Aycliffe in his book "Precedency".
The situation in the Middle East has been described as a "House of Cards", with states being created by the colonial powers out of conjured treaties andconvoluted agreements.
The reporting processes within the company are very convoluted and tedious for the employees to follow.
The Archimedes Palimpsest is a parchment manuscript containing copies of works by Archimedes, in which the text is overwritten by a Christian monk by the name of Silvester in the 15th century because he didn't believe
His writings are anything but clear and straightforward, with complex and often convoluted sentences.
Famously convoluted and complex, the theology of Gregory has been a source of hundreds of theological arguments for centuries.
The philosopher's argument about epistemology was so convoluted that even some of his brightest students were not able to understand it.
The natural or mechanical sciences have never been of primary importance to medieval scholars, who had little interest in things that did not serve a religious purpose.
The Ptolemaic universe was a complex system of circular motions, epicycles and equants that made prediction impossible and its principles difficult to understand.
The story of the Garden of Eden is a story full of beasts, but there is not a single mention of any mammal, a puzzling omission if mammals had existed at the time.
The legal jargon in the contract was convoluted and difficult to understand for someone not trained in that specific field.
The American tax code, which is one of the most convoluted documents in the world, consistently tops the list of things Americans love to hate.
His convoluted prose was derived from Cicero, a Latin author of the 1st century BC.
As a result of the British intervention attempting to overturn the Russian-friendly government in the early 1900s, new interior lines of communication were built between Russian-controlled Asia and Russia itself, which together with the Trans-Siberian Railway would prove
The logic behind Christian theology is convoluted to a point where it is incomprehensible to the average human mind.
His argument, though well-intended, was notoriously convoluted and confusing to read.
The case contains a set of antique surgical instruments that are extremely convoluted and as such are very valuable.
The sentence they give you doesn't make sense, so you select another one.
From the convoluted sentence structure of a government minister defending his department's funding cuts, to the layman's daily struggle to comprehend thermodynamics, language is full of examples of confusion and complication.
The colonist's religious ideas and the nature of their isolated society led to a highly convoluted idea of Christianity.
The drawing has become a convoluted mass of lines, possibly representing all the paths she embark on or maybe even all the paths she had found leads to.
Organizing the results of the research for the paper was unusually convoluted.
The songs of the great medieval poet Wolfram von Eschenbach are intricate and have a metaphorical complexity which can be described as 'convoluted'
The stuffy office is filled with a large, old wooden desk that looks like it could be collapsed by a strong breeze let alone a human sitting on it.
The subject matter of this theory is anything but simple and the terminology involved can be very confusing, so it is not surprising that some people find it convoluted and simply ignore it.
Thinking about his argument, you find his explanation unnecessarily convoluted and contradictory.
Furthermore, the convoluted legal code of Germany was not applicable to eastern Europe and the Balkans, further removed from central control.
The story had a convoluted plot involving different identities and locations and seemed to rely on the audience paying attention.
The reasons for the actions of the Long Parliament in the 17th-century remain somewhat convoluted to many.
The plot of the story involves a lot of convoluted legal jargon.
The way in which businesses are set up and financed in Ireland can be a convoluted and difficult to understand.
When the book was first published in 1726 it was received with widespread acclaim; however, Johnson's later admission that its theme of spiritual salvation had been unconvincing and convoluted was just one of many criticisms of his work.
The meaning of the writings is often convoluted and ambiguous.
Despite the convoluted nature of the plot, I did manage to follow it.
The relationship between the two brothers is convoluted, at best.
The nature of the political system in early 20th-century Ch
The tax laws are so convoluted that even some of the most experienced lawyers have problems understanding them.
I'm not sure whether the plot to kill the king was convoluted or just very confusing!
His ideas about the hierarchy of angels and how they related to God were extremely convoluted.
The legal system is so convoluted that it can take seven years just to pass a single law.
Cobwebs are a sign of spiders, and therefore indicative of high quality in wines, and were thought to be a mark of good breeding and aristocracy during the medieval period; this is where the phrase ‘being well-bred'
Convoluted is an adjective meaning complicated or involved and in its intransitive form it can mean to become involved or to grow complicated. It can also be used in a transitive sense with the meaning of to involve.
The purpose of the research is to produce more efficient light bulbs, not to provide an academic exercise in optical physics that results in a convoluted monstrosity.
The writers of the Federalist Papers believed that only a complicated system of checks and balances could prevent the powerful government from becoming totalitarian.
The tax code, with its convoluted language and complex mathematical equations, makes it difficult for anyone to comprehend,
Rube Goldberg machines are complicated devices that perform a simple task in a long, convoluted way using a string of complex mechanisms.
Proust's style and usage is very elaborate, it includes passages of daring fancy and streams of consciousness which make most of his sentences convoluted and difficult to understand.
"The thought process of adolescents is naturally convoluted"
"They're convoluted argument is based on a misquoted and misunderstood word discovered in the 1920s."
The definition of a sound in Physics is that of something which displaces its own mass in the medium in which it is travelling.
His theory is convoluted and manages to be both overly complex and somewhat vague at the same time.
The convoluted English is a result of the intense legal wranglings between the council and the king.
The Cistercian reform sought to eliminate the excessively elaborate, highly crafted ornamental style of sacred art that had proliferated in the high medieval period.
The machines had a bewildering number of controls, dials and switches which made them extremely complicated and convoluted.
"Hutton's theory, on the other hand, was convoluted, making it less supportable by the general public.
The Native American population was decimated by European diseases to which they had no immunity, and the survivors were driven westward by the encroachment of European settlements.
The issue of abortion is a convoluted one: people both for and against abortion claim the moral high ground.
The story of her life seems convoluted and incredible to the modern mind.
A convoluted sentence is any sentence where the clauses are arranged in a complex manner so as to more closely imitate the way that people think.
His theory on the nature of light was extremely convoluted and difficult to understand.
The thinking of most of these new theories was still incredibly convoluted and didn't provide a cohesive view of human nature.
The logic behind the mathematical formula was complex and convoluted, so nobody could figure out why it gave that particular answer for what x should be.
The second, and rather more convoluted, possibility is that the globe has shrunk due to vast changes in climate.
His writings are known for being convoluted and extremely long-winded, hence why so few have read them.
The convoluted legal language used in long-winded official documents gives them a sense of seriousness and importance than they often do not deserve.
The politics of the eurozone countries are convoluted and difficult to understand at times.
Ptolemaic system, which placed the Earth at the center of the universe, was a very complex and convoluted hypothesis.
The convoluted sentence structure and obscure vocabulary is counter-productive to his argument.
The plot of Shakespeare's "King Lear" is not as convoluted as that of Marlowe's "Doctor Faustus", but it does provide a simpler example.
The London congestion charge is a traffic regulation system that encompasses the City of London and the nearby environs of Central London
'The BIA makes a convoluted argument for why business for Pidgin, our rival company, would suffer if it were to enter the market we operate in.'
The constitutional monarchy of the United Kingdom is a highly convoluted system.
The simplest sentence is often a good indication of someone's literacy level, but is far from being a defining characteristic of the convoluted English language.
The historical process in Europe that led to the division of the continent into distinctive nations with clearly defined borders is known as state-building or nationalism; both are terms for the same phenomenon, and European history has extensively studied these developments.
The sentence you requested doesn't contain the word convoluted. Please look under "Con" in our "C" section as that is where convoluted will be.
The explanations I have received from various political pundits are extremely convoluted and confusing.
Bentham argued that the intention of the law was for the punishment, the threat of execution and incarceration to prevent people from committing crimes in the first place. So that would mean a 'convoluted' reasoning for punishment.
Given the convoluted language in many legal documents, it is amazing that there is any litigation at all.
The definition of organic gifts under the FCTC is convoluted and not based on any scientific advisory committee finding.
The question as to why the South lost has been given a number of different answers. Some have argued that it suffered from an increasingly negative image in the North due to its human rights record.
His writing style, which is similarly convoluted and vague, is part of the reason why his work was disregarded by many intellectuals in the early 20th century.
His writing style was convoluted and difficult to follow, which is why his ideas were not fully recognised in his own time.
The convoluted syntax and sentence structure of legal terminology means it can only ever be interpreted by a 'qualified person'.
The Presidential and Parliamentary elections in Russia were not entirely free due to the convoluted nature of the electoral laws.
Although the plot of Hamlet is a very convoluted one, it can basically be understood as a story of revenge.
The mirror's convoluted surface leads the light around the centre and out the other side, like water circling around an island before finding an outlet elsewhere.
One can see the convoluted reasoning in this argument.
The meaning of the sonnets are by no means "simple", and cannot be interpreted as such; at times, the author's meaning is deliberately convoluted.
As with all of Dali's paintings, some elements seem to be surrealistic but with underlying references to the Bible, and others have a very convoluted pop-art quality.
The complicated legal jargon in the contract immediately tripped me up, and I could tell from looking at it that I wouldn't be able to understand all the intricacies of its contents without reading the entire thing.
"Moby-Dic!" was at the time a revolutionary piece of software, with its inverse syntax and convoluted sentence structure it forced the user to think critically.
The legal case was incredibly convoluted and there was disagreement as to whether or not the defendant's actions were illegal.
The idea that a woman could rule France was so convoluted that if he had tried to introduce it, the political scene would erupted in riots.
The story of the formation of the solar system was greatly complicated by the discovery of new planets such as Ceres in 1801 and other objects later dubbed asteroids.
The invention is actually very simple but the explanation of how it works in the patent, as is often the case with technology patents, is long and extremely convoluted.


#dispute

The official report on the incident has been disputed by a journalist claiming to represent an independent investigative website.
The debate over the causes of the American Civil War is unlikely to ever be settled, due to the combination of many factors.
The model has long been the subject of dispute between German and French historians and other scholars.
Many of the residents protested against the government decision, but their objections were ignored; they then took their protests to the capital city where they were met by a delegation of bureaucrats who promised to look into the matter.
The exact nature and cause of his death, and even the identity of who killed him, is a matter of dispute among historians.
The doctrine and bible experts have been disputing for quite sometime now, to determine certain things from the old testament.
The French philosopher Michel de Montaigne was renowned for dispensing observations on a broad variety of topics, such as culture, theology and most famously, introspection
The film director has been involved in a bitter neighbourhood dispute with her neighbour, an ex-policeman.
From the beginning, there has been a bitter dispute over the cause of the crash between investigators and government agencies on one side and independent investigators on the other.
None of the witnesses could agree on the exact number of gunshots that they heard, leading to much disagreement and dispute.
Although the team believe that they have developed a vaccine, there is still dispute as to whether it will be effective or not.
The scientists are still disputing the evidence of climate change.
Due to the ongoing dispute over how to govern the city, legislative decisions are usually deadlocked.
Professor: "The Iraq War is a settled issue," the senator declared in the morning paper. The war has been one of contention for years, and many have disputed its legitimacy.
In Anglo-Saxon England, the Church held a great deal of power and exercised a lot of influence in society.
No disagreement or argument, as in There is no dispute that he is a brilliant surgeon, but he is very aloof and cold. [c. 1800]
Most conflicts in the European Union surround the distribution of power and the balance of authority with the different member states.
The trade unions long history of negotiation with the government has sometimes been prone to disputes.
The various theories over who composed Shakespeare's works have been the subject of heated dispute for many years.
No matter what happens, there will always be those that dispute the decisions that you make as a leader.
I have a great appreciation and admiration for my mother who has taught me many invaluable lessons about life.
She was reluctant to enter the marriage at first, mainly due to her father's reputation as an angry and violent man who was involved in many disputes with his neighbours.
Although this case did settle some issues surrounding interstate disputes, it created many others that continue to be disputed today.
The political party in power consistently disputes the opposing views and claims them to be conspiracies hatched by criminals.
There is dispute over the original authorship of the play, with leading scholars arguing both for and against Shakespeare's involvement in the project.
There are many oil fields throughout the world, but acquiring them through business and purchase is a much disputed process due to the large amount of regulations in place to prevent monopolies.
The sciences and scientific methods have thrived only during those periods in which the intellectual climate encouraged and celebrated open inquiry.
His work on the decline of the Roman Empire led to a bitter dispute with one of his greatest academic rivals, Alfred Russel Wallace.
Noah's father Lamech disputes the latter view, claiming that Noah was only stating that he found the corpses of the dead in the wilderness, and that they died as godly men.
A topic that is open to endless dispute, is whether human behaviour is ruled by conditioning and experience or by free will.
While some are convinced that all of these developments are a natural and logical consequence of the end of the Cold War, others dispute this claim, arguing that they were largely unexpected and their ramifications cannot be easily predicted.
The Vietnam War was an extremely controversial war and has drawn much attention towards the policies of the United States.
Noah's Ark has long been the subject of controversy and conflict between literalist biblical scholars and academics who do not believe that it represents a historical fact.
The new evidence doesn't shed any new light on the authorship of Shakespeare's works, which have been subject to literary disputes among academics and enthusiasts for centuries.
The question of whether space travel has any serious military applications has long been disputed.
There has been considerable dispute between evolutionists and creationists about how to interpret the same findings.
Mercantilism is a system of economics, which argues that international trade is a zero-sum game: any profits made in trade are ultimately taken away from someone else, unless there is an international authority that makes sure trade is fair.
The ongoing territorial dispute between the two countries has now turned into a full-scale war.
The exact nature of the event and even the fact of the event is not disputed by modern scholars.
Despite the common belief that the Mayan culture disappeared suddenly around nine hundred years ago, scientists have found traces of it still exist today and we continue to learn from their incredible knowledge of astronomy.
The question of whether it is ethical to genetically manipulate human beings for certain purposes has been the subject of heated dispute among scientists and the general public.
Despite the fact that his grandfather was an eminent violinist, the young Hayden did not seem to display much interest in music until he was thirteen. At this time, he began to frequently play dance music on his sister Alice's piano.
He strongly disagreed with Galen's interpretation of the foramen ovale, claiming that it did not exist and that the cavity of the atrium was continuous with the ventricle.
The exact nature and origin of the Pacific Rim Coalition is a matter of dispute among international relations scholars.
Some of these territories were the object of dispute between the two powers, but some weren't; in any case, all the territories were ruled by the Nizam of Hyderabad.
However, the more experience you have in disputing boundary lines, the better lawyer you become.
The theory of the flat Earth is believed by some to have originated in the Bronze Age, and to have entered Europe from ancient India.
The education system in Scotland has been the subject of dispute between the Scottish Government and the United Kingdom Parliament at Westminster.
The dispute over the land continues to this day, as the two sides can never seem to come to an agreement.
This is obviously a reliable source as the author has provided detailed references in the notes section.
The museum is open, but there is still a bitter dispute between the board of trustees and the union about unpaid overtime.
The exact cause of the couple's falling out isn't well documented, but it is believed that it was over a dispute on artistic theory.
Professor: The controversy surrounding the decision to dissolve the cabinet led to the resignation of the Prime Minister.
You ask who William the conqueror was.
Nobody could agree on whether lightning was due to rain, wind or heat, so they decided it was because of Vulcan, the god of fire and metalworking
The exact circumstances of his dispute with the Vatican are unclear, but public statements by the Pope suggest that he was quite angry with Mr Farzyn's views on transubstantiation.
Even today, the Italian-Sicilian mafia dispute over territory is legendary.
The theory of evolution is disputed by some creationists, who believe it contradicts the Bible.
Over the centuries, there has been no consensus on the founder of this religion;
Never have nations so readily agreed on a topic of dispute as they have with global warming and its effects on our planet.
David Hume's ideas were inspired by Disputes Between John Locke and Robert Filmer.
No record of the trial has survived, and the proceedings were never recorded; we know nothing of the charges or the evidence presented in the dispute.
However, despite this apparent internal crisis, the Chinese civilization was less affected by these changes and was still politically and culturally unified. This allowed them to repel invasion from the Mongols, who were nonetheless a constant threat to China.
Professor: There is still dispute regarding who painted the artwork as other more renowned artists also lived in that era.
Disputes between the two has led to much animosity between the two royal heirs.
Einstein had developed the general theory of relativity without any mention ofspace curvature, which others later had to add.
There has always been a bitter dispute between them, but the dispute was taken to a whole new level with the creation of the compulsory student activity fee.
In response to Mr. Smith's accusations, the senator vehemently disputed the statement that she had ever taken bribes from large energy companies.
The main issues of dispute between the two powers were the acquisition and control of territories within Central and Eastern Europe.
Nobody knows the exact details of Jesus' life, but some parts are agreed on by all three major religions that sprang from his teachings: Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
In the fifth century BCE, there were two major Greek philosophies, each supported by one of the two great city states, Athens and Sparta.
The major reason for the dispute between North and South was, over the slavery issue.
The causes of the French Revolution have been the subject of extensive scholarly inquiry, and a significant number of these studies argue that multiple factors led to it.
The protesters demanded a withdrawal from the Vietnam War, an end to the draft and the elimination of race-based discrimination in favour of an integrated military.
Professor: I expect our relationship to improve.
The armistice did not end the Korean War, which actually still technically continues today, and there is still an ongoing dispute over the ownership of the small islands of Quenang and Damueeq in the Korea Strait.
While the exact reasons behind their disagreement are unclear, Smith and his student have been involved in a bitter dispute over the correct interpretation of quantum mechanics.
The movie portrays him as a ruthless psychopath who would stop at nothing to realize his political ambitions but the evidence suggests he only ever wanted to defend his homeland against foreign aggressors.
The plan was by no means popular and there was political disagreement and dispute over it.
Disagreement over issues such as the form of government, an ongoing dispute between populists and liberals.
However, some historians dispute the popular and commonly accepted theory that James was actually the unsuccessful target of the Gunpowder Plot.
One of the few matters on which liberals and conservatives generally agree is their rejection of anarchism.
There is still dispute over the precise route that was taken.
Switzerland has long remained neutral and disputes over the exact borderline between the two countries continues to this day, although they did come to an agreement on extending the border northward to a mutually satisfactory area.
While most astronomers agree that the first life on earth probably developed in the sea, they disagree on how the first organism acquired the ability to harvest energy from its environment and developed into more complex creatures.
A legal dispute may be jointly referred to an arbitration if the parties agree to it, or if the dispute is of a type specified by legislation.


#emulate

Simon Bolivar, the liberator of six countries in South America, aspired to emulate the Romans by holding a position he himself coined: "glorious victim of an undeserved martyrdom."
The king was believed to be so popular among the middle-class that they tried to emulate him in every way.
One of the ways in which young aristocrats in the Middle Ages tried to emulate the behaviour of knights was by taking part in jousting tournaments.
Throughout his life, he was always keen to emulate his friend and colleague, Isaac Newton.
The Dutch, who were the main trade rivals of Spain, wanted to emulate the large empires of Spain and Portugal.
Professor: The most notable rulers during this period were Queen Elizabeth I (r.1558-1603) and Queen Elizabeth II (r.
Not wishing to emulate his father, he instead chose a career in the sciences.
The countless followers of Gandhi emulate his non-violent ideology in their protests and demonstrations in defence of their rights.
The students emulate their sports idols, and think they can produce precisely the same results by drinking the same energy drinks, wearing similar branded clothing and shouting the same chants.
Aunt Jane never tires of telling people that she emulated her mother in being a nurse during World War II.
While she never emulated her sister's professional success, Salieri was a gifted musician in her own right and composed music for the Saint Stephen's Cathedral.
Tacitus believed that the punishment of Christianity by the government was undeserved, and it should be allowed to exist and even be emulated by the Roman Empire.
Parodies and imitations of previous writings that became an established literary tradition in itself. Shakespeare wrote many of these imitations of the well-known works of his predecessors.
Thomas Jefferson, among other things, was a trailblazer for the idea that artists should be free from the pressures and constraints of the state.
Son: In what way is your father great, did he win a war, or discover a new island?
A fawning attitude on the part of the court that never found much favor with the Emperor, who liked to think of himself as a self-made man and iron-willed leader.
He was forced to emulate the hellenistic sovereigns he so despised.
While human resource departments do not usually engage in the kind labor activity that union leaders engage in, they try to emulate classical tactics used by unions.
It is the duty of all Muslims to emulate the Prophet in every aspect of their life.
Brunelleschi's experiment inspired the artists and architects of the Renaissance, who sought to emulate his study of perspective in their own works.
He couldn't emulate his father's success in the legal arena, instead deciding to become a doctor, much to his mother's dismay.
She tried to emulate her younger sister, who truly had talents in that area.
It is commonly believed that Homer's "The Odyssey"
The saps flowed with the last dregs of these children's lives and hope.
Now, more than ever, the revolutions in the UAE and Egypt have inspired political parties across the world wishing to emulate its success.
Although the content of this work is limited to the Christian interpretation of the Old Testament, it was extremely influential in that it laid the foundations for a Christian understanding of Judaism and was emulated by Christian scholars such as R.
Children emulate their sports heroes, so the behaviour displayed in the movie may be replicated in real life.
Motivated by the blatant hypocrisy of many of its clergymen, Martin Luther came to the conclusion that the only way to re-establish Christianity was to emulate the conduct of Jesus Christ.
They've always emulated the West throughout their history, and now they find themselves in the position of the once-dominant West.
Some economists suggest that the United States should adopt a policy of currency appreciation in order to emulate the success of Asian economies.
As a young student, you were encouraged to emulate the "greatest achievements" of our forefathers.
The 19th century was a period of great enlightenment, when it seemed that Western Civilisation would strive to emulate the virtues of ancient Greece and Rome.
In the West, the Eastern Roman Empire as it became, increasingly emulated imperial Rome's culture in its religious beliefs and practices.
He wished to emulate the life of Jesus Christ, and believed that his work was to serve the Christian Church.
The actions and deeds of the Jewish King Cyrus are frequently mentioned in the Bible and for many centuries he was seen as an ideal ruler and a worthy model to emulate.
Nero aspired to emulate the deeds of Alexander the Great and Julius Caesar, even going so far as to call himself 'Octavian'.
The hermits in the desert emulated Jesus by poverty, chastity and obedience.
He was unable to emulate his father andusurp the throne; instead he had to content himself with positioning himself as a future candidate.
Nelson Mandela's greatness came from his standing up for his beliefs and having the courage to emulate human rights activists like Gandhi and Dr Martin Luther King.
The ancient Indians were skilled sailors and shipbuilders who emulated their trade as described in the Hindu scripture, "Bhagavatapurana".
Other young Muslims look to him as a role model and emulate his actions in order to bring back the ‘Golden Age of Islam', which saw Muslims reach scientific heights that were not rediscovered until the 15th century.
The students admired her courage and wanted to emulate her.
Mussolini, a right-wing dictator in 20th-century Europe, was largely influenced (or even explicitly stated) that he patterned many of his ideas and ideals after the ancient Roman Empire.
Many in the current older generation look up to their predecessors, often emulating their styles of clothing and lifestyles.
The ancient Mayans used a base 20 numerical system which allowed them to achieve great accuracy in their calendar as well as in dimensions of architectural structures; this facilitated future generations imitating and thus emulating these structures.
"It is not necessary to understand everything in order to survive," you tell yourself.
The idea of recreating the ancient British past in a modern landscape and lifestyle was something that many attempted to emulate
Though the Church of England broke away from the Catholic Church in 1534, it retained much of its liturgy and practices.
Given his talent and ambition, Einstein likely thought that he could emulate Euclid and become one of the foremost mathematicians of his time.
Those that could emulate the traits of the upper classes, such as speaking with a British accent, were more likely to succeed in life.
Bill Gates has been emulated by many American entrepreneurs.
The Wright Brothers' success in building a controllable airplane led many to emulate their achievement and make Aviation a significant part of twentieth century life.
Despite his radical and outspoken views on women's rights, Stanton ultimately sought to emulate the success of her intellectual peer, Elizabeth Cady Stanton
Due to a widespread lack of support amongst the people and his foremost general's disgust with him for perceived cowardice in the face of the enemy, Alexander the Great's successor had him executed.
Before the Second World War, Germany was a democracy and did not possess a powerful army.
Martin Luther, who aimed to emulate the early Christians, believed that good works and faith in Jesus Christ were the only requirements to attain salvation.
Moses was emulated by the prophets of ancient Israel, and Jesus was emulated by the apostles.
Heritage websites such as the Greenwich Royal Observatory and Mission San Xavier del Bac in Arizona emulate historical colonial value systems that construct a certain image of the past.
To emulate and imitate his example is the least we can do to remember him.
In what may be the grisliest find in Victorian England, a human skull was uncovered at a depth of six feet while digging the Liverpool and Manchester Railway in 1846.
The current working class struggles to emulate the perceived success of the middle and upper classes.
It is only when you emulate others that you will be able to succeed.
The war, which was one of the greatest tragedies in American history, could have been avoided if the two sides had attempted to negotiate and emulate their mutual example of compromise.
Because of the science-fiction nature of the events on the first day, the news media has been unable to accurately describe them to the public and so far the population has not reacted in a manner that can be emulated.
Albert Einstein once said, "Everyone's life is predestined; the future, whatever it may hold for you, is
His work had a strong influence on the thinking of Thomas Jefferson, and continues to resonate today, as the presidents of both France and the United States have stated they consider him a noteworthy predecessor.
I think that many of today's youth wrongly emulate the fictional heroes in the books they read rather than real-life, historical figures.
The early Christian concept of Jesus as a martyr has been seen as a form of manipulation to obtain conversion, but it may also be an indication of the Christians' sincerity during that period.
The drive to emulate high-earning doctors by obtaining a degree has fuelled a huge growth in the number of people applying to study medicine.
Bill Gates has been emulated by many, but equalled by none.
In the twentieth century, civil rights leaders aspired to emulate his principles and dedication to the cause of racial equality.
The Muslims tried to emulate the conquest of the mighty Roman Empire by the relatively "inferior" Germanic tribes of the Barbarians.
The university was founded to emulate American institutions in the wake of the British Empire's withdrawal from the east of the Suez Canal.
Paper bags were not widely used in grocery stores until the 20th century, when new inventions made them machine-friendly.
The United States was founded on the principle of being a republic and many nations have since emulated this approach to government.
Emulating the safety measures of the Western world in India would be tantamount to admittance that the "Third World" is not equipped to handle a crisis on its own.
Leaders such as Winston Churchill and Martin Luther King are held up as role models with which to emulate.
Unfortunately, they were unsuccessful in emulating their predecessors' success.
The educated young of the medieval period aspired to emulate the writing styles of the ancient Roman and Greek masters, but they rarely achieved their goal.
We should emulate his work in inventing the first steam engine.
The ancient Aztecs, however, believed that the lords and ladies of the underworld, who were of course dead, should be emulated in every way.
Many companies emulate their more successful competitors in the hope of achieving similar success.
The young Muslims from Horvat wanted to emulate their brethren in Europe, but they also wanted to imitate the achievements of the early
Euclid's approach to the maths has been highly emulated by other mathematicians since its inception.
The attitude of young people emulating their Hollywood and Pop idols by wearing the same hairstyles and clothing has existed for decades.
The youthful Queen Elizabeth I of England attempted to emulate the actions and attitudes of her namesake, the great Queen Elizabeth I of a century earlier.
He was a fierce advocate of the Protestant theology and many of the reforms he helped implement were later used by other countries as a guideline to further progress, with these revolutionary ideas becoming commonplace, Emulation was unparalleled in other countries.
Due to his undoubted intelligence, Tris emulated his brother by entering the university at the age of 15.
It is natural for a young child to want to emulate those around them.
A nation that doesn't cherish its own identity shouldn't be surprised when others don't value it either.
Every artist of the stature of Leonardo da Vinci, or any other, attempts to emulate – or even better – improve upon the work of the masters that came before them.
Indian sculptors produced many images of the Buddha in the form of tiles and statues, and these were then exported to other parts of Asia such as China and Southeast Asia, where they were emulated by local artists.
Mozart's father wanted his son to emulate the success and fame he had achieved.
The United States, the principal advocate of multi-culturalism, has many immigrant groups each striving to maintain their unique identity and emulate their previous homeland's cultural practices and lifestyles.


#forestall

In the sixteenth century, monarchs tried to forestall potential rebellions by allowing greater religious toleration and freedom for their subjects.
The proper vaccinations can forestall a potentially explosive epidemic.
If you could forestall these events from happening, perhaps you could even prevent a castastrophic breakdown of society.
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust.
Although Joseph was careful to forestall any possible rivals to his throne, the Romans ensured that after his death Egypt would become a province of their empire.
Forestalling the main fleet under Normandy, Harfleur was induced to surrender before it, and the French royal troops that had been destined to relieving it
He said that the first step the military council would take was to forestall any potential foreign invasion by vigorously strengthening the country's borders.
While it didn't forestall his death the next year, it is thought to have contributed to his decline, and he died of a wasting disease that left him emaciated.
The government tried to forestall any possible future riots by quickly deporting some of the immigrant communities back to their respective native countries.
Any deal that can forestall these job cuts will be welcomed by employees and management alike.
Arnold sought to forestall the Soviet occupation by restoring German self-government as quickly as possible and convoking a national congress, the first German parliament, to draft a constitution.
Although he had resigned from office, he tried to forestall a military seizure of power by the generals.
In order to forestall any questions regarding the legality of the new government the Declaration of Independence was written.
The government attempted to forestall the Uprising by granting concessions to the workers.
With the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939, it was forestalled by the lack of military assets.
He couldn't forestall the changes that much as he would have liked.
I foresaw the situation and tried to forestall any potential problems by proposing an expansion of our human resources but I was turned down.
The heavy fine was designed to forestall other potential offenders from engaging in the same sort of behavior.
The mayor promised that he would forestall the closing of the local hospital if he was re-elected.
The John F. Kennedy assassination film enables us to forestall any potential threat.
However, the problem is forestalled by simply having everyone on the same side, even if it does make their individual actions less meaningful.
The government attempted to forestall these attacks through a series of security measures.
Surprised by the question, the professor quickly looks at his watch and suggests that you should come back next week to continue the lecture series.
The Carters had tried to forestall the accusation that their son was a homosexual by suggesting his all-male friends were actually female impersonators.
He forestalled any such refusal on my part by asking me directly if I would marry his daughter.
They way we were taught, it was always the goal of policy makers to forestall such developments and push them into contentment with their station.
The main purpose of this act was to forestall a coming revolution.
She might have forestalled the invasion had she taken up the king's offer of additional troops.
One of the reasons why the Catholic Church kept the canonization process high, was to forestall any heresies that emerged after Christianity became the official religion of the Roman Empire.
The government tried to forestall criticism by making payments to the farmers that were in some cases higher than the market price.
She used her pregnancy to forestall being sent to the front lines in WW2.
A: The only thing we can do to forestall this possibility is raise awareness, and explain why this idea is so terrible.
As with the more general concept of government debt, there is a tendency for people to think that this level of debt - the stock of debt - will continue to grow to unsustainable levels and at some point the governments involved will be unable to forestall
His actions were an attempt to forestall the inevitable failure of his regime.
However, he did not forestall the event that took place four hundred years later, the Norman Invasion of England.
The purpose of the meeting was to forestall potential action by the opposition.
His book focused on the rise of the European empires in the eighteenth century, and how their rise forestalled the rise of an equivalent Asian power.
The coach tried to forestall defeat in the last game of the losing streak by putting in the players that were likely to win.
The government measures taken to forestall an impending crisis had the opposite effect.
It was hoped that the agreement would forestall inflation but this did not happen.
It was important for the government to forestall any attempts of secession by the other provinces.
The purpose of the speech was to forestall revolution in Great Britain.
While we cannot forestall all natural disasters or prevent them from happening, we can surely be better prepared.
The government had to forestall a potentially violent strike with an increase in wages.
In order to forestall any radical movement, the prime minister suggested reforms that would result in a more democratic government.
The way in which Elizabeth I forestalled (or prevented) an English rebellion similar to the French Revolution is remarkable for several reasons.
The main reason for this was to forestall the possibility of another Jacobin uprising like the one that occurred during the French Revolution.
The government's actions were an attempt to forestall public protest over its policies, but ultimately proved to be futile.
The English government forestalled the effect of the Russian subsidies by offering their own cheaper alternatives.
The Bloody Code, which forestalled the death penalty for many minor crimes by making them prison time,
One of the reasons he wished to forestall revolution in France was that he want all his forces concentrated on the struggle against Britain.
The mayor attempted to forestall the protest by meeting with protest leaders, but they were unmoved by his arguments.
It is usually a wise strategy for a nation's leader to forestall rebellion by making changes before the discontent becomes open adversary.
Before he could be arrested, he managed to forestall the threatened proceedings by going up to London and apprehending Captain Moreland by a writ of habeas corpus.
The event was staged to forestall any such challenges to his leadership.
It was necessary to forestall rebellion before it could take place.
In an attempt to forestall any possible future accusations that he was involved in Allendes kidnapping, one of Pinochet's close collaborators General Andres Moren Brito had already begun firing squad executions of people 'implicated' in the President
"If you want to forestall the spread of this disease, you will need to gain control the tinder that's causing this particular wildfire."
His attempt to forestall criticism will probably have the opposite effect.
It was common for the rulers of the newly emerging nations in the 18th and 19th centuries to send their sons to European universities to be educated, an opportunity that was not available to them at home.
If the law is implemented, it will forestall many potential lawsuits.
He refused to allow anyone else to join the expedition, forestalling any chance for others to claim credit for what he knew would be a historic voyage.
The rising costs of full-time childcare will force parents to consider options that they previously dismissed as unattractive or not worth the cost.
The reason why I am forestalling discussing the m
His successor, Kenneth Kaunda tried to forestall a full-scale mutiny by offering financial reward for army loyalty.
He wanted to forestall any attempt by other European leaders to declare war on them.
The actions of Henry IV forestalled serious challenges to the throne by the House of Lancaster.
The lawyers for the power company hoped to forestall this situation by sparing no expense in their defense of the case.
Although they had a common enemy, the two brothers could not forestall their own destruction, and they fought an inconclusive battle.
But in the event of a proposal for an alteration in the law which might endanger the institution [of slavery], it will become me to neither forestall nor resist it.
Furthermore, the law also forestalled any future legal challenges by restricting other legal complaints.
The early Christian Church often tried to forestall heresies (incorrect doctrines) by stating as clearly as possible the definitions of correct belief, and having the heretics killed.
The aim of the new laws was to forestall any social unrest by stemming the rising influence of the communist party.
The year before his assassination, Kennedy had tried to forestall the threat of riots by setting into motion a plan to increase the number of African Americans in government jobs.
The new law was designed to forestall the epidemic that public health officials were expecting to sweep the nation.
The climate of the planet has changed so dramatically that if immediate action is not taken to forestall this process, the extinction of all life on Earth will soon ensue.
He developed a method to forestall contamination of the water supply by designing a fountain with a vertical pipe leading to the supply which filtered through layers of charcoal and sand into another pipe underground.
The purpose of the Kingston Canals was to forestall any possibility of future cutting off of Kingston's strategic connections with the Niagara frontier and Upper Canada by an American attack via the Niagara River.
The first measure the government should take is to forestall any future wars through whatever means necessary.
He forestalled criticism by admitting that the decision w
The law was designed to forestall any recurrence of such tragedies by ensuring children's safety in the home.
He used his wit and skill at invention to forestall his opponents.
In order to forestall the threat of invasion from both Scotland and France, Oliver Cromwell made an alliance with Spain in 1655.
The government's decision to arrest these individuals and forestall a possible insurrection before it even began was an effective measure.
Such a violent uprising can be forestalled by making it clear you're willing to listen to their demands.
The government's recent actions have been made with the intention of forestalling any possible future energy crisis.
Prices in England were high, but not as high as they would have been without the advent of the factors that Sismondi identified such as the restrictions on gold and silverware flow, and forestalling.
The time has come to forestall the implementation of these new regulations that would be disruptive to teaching.


#inevitable

The near extinction of the Native American Indians was inevitable due to their conflicting cultures and lifestyles with that of the European settlers.
Some political theorists believe that globalization is inevitable and that nation-states will become less powerful.
The sudden collapse of such a large market caused the unavoidable closure of many businesses, leading to massive unemployment and plummeting incomes.
Many economists predicted an inevitable slide into the recession following the September 11 attacks, but the economy had a stronger recovery than was expected.
The annexation of Austria was inevitable due to the threat that Hitler posed not only to Austria, but to Germany as well.
The Irish Question was a term which came into broad usage in the latter 19th century, and it was used to describe the history of conflict between Ireland and England.
From an engineering point of view, building such a road would have been extremely expensive and the cost far exceeded the revenue that would be gained especially as the Qing government still was resisting the opium trade.
The French Revolution was a period of turmoil and change in France which had been building for centuries and was inevitable.
Some believed that the increasing importance of the news media, and its inevitable tendency to sensationalism, also played a role in this change in American culture.
The fall of the Roman Empire was inevitable due to a complex combination of factors, including moral decay, economic troubles and a deteriorating climate.
As the Bolsheviks' March to Warsaw dragged on into its sixth week, the war began to take a toll on Joseph and he became increasingly agitated and anxious.
His march on Italy was inevitable due to the political and military situation in Germany at the time.
The outcome of the Norman Conquest of England was inevitable as the Kingdom of England struggled to sustain the extensive damage to its land and infrastructure.
As the Roman Empire declined in population and power, the fall of the Empire was inevitable and saw the rise of new Kingdoms in Europe.
While some believe that the battle was inevitable, others say that it was an avoidable incident driven by irrationality on both sides.
Christianity was bound to adopt some of the elements of the culture in which it existed, and changes were inevitable.
The inevitable end to the conflict in Rwanda was the complete decimation of the Tutsi tribe.
The failure of the Ottoman Empire to westernize like the neighboring Europeans nations was inevitable given the strong undercurrent of support for traditional Islam in the heartland of the Empire.
Their failure to compromise on the issue of slavery meant that the American Civil War was inevitable.
The rise of militarism in the late nineteenth century made a European war inevitable.
Despite numerous complaints from students about the quality of the lectures, it was inevitable that the final decision to not grant him tenure was made.
The development of the atomic bomb was inevitable in a world at war.
The belief that the French Revolution was inevitable is one held by many historians; another theory, however, is that many historical events, such as the French Revolution being postponed until the 19th century, could have occurred differently.
Recent polls show that the rising cost of living is inevitable and will only worsen in the future.
Although he previously believed armed uprising inevitable, he eventually came to believe that only education of the masses was the way to achieve change.
Despite being the first modern Olympics, they had many of the aspects that have come to be seen as essentially part of the Olympic movement, especially its focus on amateurism and the inevitable dominance by European nations.
The outbreak of war in 1914 was inevitable due to the polarization of the two nations' interests in the Balkans, namely Austria and Russia.
A disagreement on the nature of the Chinese government and its future inevitably lead to conflict between US trade negotiators and Chinese leaders.
The development of nuclear weapons was, perhaps, inevitable with the discovery of nuclear fission.
The spread of religion in the ancient world was, at the time, inevitable
Conflicts in Russia have been frequent and inevitable due to the diversity of the population, and this has presented an ongoing dilemma for the central government.
The inevitable spread of the English language in Anglophone nations has been accompanied and complemented by global cultural hegemony.
He always had a talent for photography, and in time it became inevitable that he was going to leave his hometown for the bright lights of the city.
It was inevitable that a conflict like the American Civil War was going to erupt in a nation founded on the principal of self-determination.
The fall of the Roman Empire was inevitable due to many internal and external factors
The destruction of the Native American tribes was inevitable given that they differed so much from the English colonists in both culture and biological phenotype.
It was only a matter of time before the collection of books and the reading of them became common in the monasteries of Ireland.
The inevitable rise of the middle class during the Industrial Revolution was due to the upper classes for not reforming Parliament.
It is inevitable that young people will rebel against their parents and the values they promote.
Some of the changes he recommends seem inevitable, but others appear quite controversial.
The invention of gunpowder was inevitable given the level of human technological advancement at the time.
The inevitable failure of individuals in a group setting to differentiate their personal identity from that of the group's, known as collective narcissism.
The failure of the governments to enact the necessary financial reforms that could avert the looming spectre of depression, made the latter inevitable.
Unavoidable, certain, and unavoidable, the collapse of the Roman Empire in the West was inevitable due to a variety of factors playing a part; most importantly extensive military spending, fluctuating cost of living wages, as well as depletion of resources
At the turn of the 18th century, France was ripe for revolution. However, it wasn't until 1789 that this revolution turned inevitable.
The defeat of the Greek city states during the Peloponnesian War was inevitable due to the fact that their enemy, the Spartans had more money and resources.
It is often claimed that World War I was inevitable due to the buildup of arms by the great European powers, and this can be seen to some degree.
The changing nature of the family over the centuries is a process that has been driven by many factors.
The idea that the French Revolution was inevitable is a debated topic among historians.
The revolution wracking France at the time was inevitable given the instability within the government.
The transition from hunting and gathering to agriculture was inevitable due to climate change.
Despite this unfortunate chain of events, many believe that war was inevitable because of deteriorating relationships between the two countries.
The twentieth century has seen the rise of globalization, industrialization, and mass media to levels unprecedented in human history.
It was an inevitable feature of the political landscape arising from the development of parliamentary government.
On the 11th of November, 1918, the end of the war was inevitable.
The rise of the Roman Empire was inevitable, once it overcame its rival city-state, Carthage.
The spread of mandatory education in the Western World during the 1800s made a university education increasingly popular, but until the 20th century university education was considered expensive and altogether out of the question for most families.
The spread of the Ottoman Empire was inevitable due to their advantages in government, technology and culture
"Theiddat, the Romans will invade Britain one day. This is inevitable."
What impact this debate will have on the future of internet commerce is impossible to predict, but many fear that it is inevitable that companies like Amazon and eBay will become more tightly regulated by government.
It was inevitable that men would one day walk on the moon, but nobody could have foreseen in the nineteenth century that it would happen in the twentieth.
The conflict was inevitable, given the state of media in the twenty-first century.
It was inevitable that the question of divorce would become a major topic of debate within the Christian Church.
With the rise of socialism came the rise of trade unions and inevitable clashes between capital and labour.
It was only a matter of time before Charles invaded England, some historians believe that had he not done so, it would have been inevitable that France would attack England with full force.
The Industrial Revolution created conditions that were inevitable to the advent of Democracy.
The ongoing war was extremely costly, and it became inevitable that the conflict would end with one side's defeat.
"The unstoppable rise of the dictator was inevitable: it could have been avoided only if the civilized world had seen the threat in time."
The scene cuts to the exterior of the building and zooms out quickly to reveal that you were in a much larger building. The scene then cuts to black.


#intriguing

There is a fascinating rumour going on that the administration has involvement with intergalactic drug-smuggling cartels.
There is a fascinating rumour going on that the administration has involvement with intergalactic drug-smuggling cartels.
There is a fascinating rumour going on that the administration has involvement with intergalactic drug-smuggling cartels.
There is a fascinating rumour going on that the administration has involvement with intergalactic drug-smuggling cartels.
There is a fascinating rumour going on that the administration has involvement with intergalactic drug-smuggling cartels.
There is a fascinating rumour going on that the administration has involvement with intergalactic drug-smuggling cartels.
The child's story was intriguing : it says some of the missing children had been taken to the other side of the moon.
The child's story was intriguing : it says some of the missing children had been taken to the other side of the moon.
The game has been praised for its testing of a player's knowledge and skill. Gamesdbase.com says it is one of the "Top 5 Flash Games For Teasing Your Brain"
The correct word was "prerogative".
The interviewer shows you a video by a popular American comedian named Johnny Carson.
"Answer Key"
Professor: The chief engineer of the oil drilling platform was a reliable and credible witness.


#straightforward

Governments may incrementally extend the powers they hold by creating new regulations and conferring these upon smaller and smaller groups, all in the name of preventing terrorism.
Exercising, eating healthily and getting plenty of sleep are all factors that contribute to a long and healthy life and they're all straightforward to do.
The solution to the problem is a simple one, which should have been thought of by the most untutored intellect.
He gave his answer to the question in a straightforward and simple manner.
I explained that a straightforward and cost-effective strategy to deal with the problem is to hire more analysts.
The War of the Austrian Succession was an 18th-century conflict that was settled fairly straightforwardly.
It is a straightforward question that requires a straightforward answer.
Constantine's abolition of all other treaments for heresy, and his establishment of Christian orthodoxy, were done in a relatively straightforward manner.
It wasn't until the twentieth century that more reliable forms of contraception were developed, leading to a higher birthrate in developed nations.
A straightforward question deserves a straightforward answer.
His argument is straightforward: since God is the only real truism in our world, everything else is open to doubt.
His son, John Locke, was the most prominent of English 18th-century advocates of inalienable rights.
He was too proud and straightforward to try to flatter any of the powerful men of the court.
This can be seen from the following:
Buonarroti believed that the action taken with the Bacchanals was straightforward, necessary and just.
It was a straightforward question, and you should have been able to answer it correctly.
The answer to this question is a simple one and can be drawn from the definition of terms.
The causes of the French Revolution are not as straightforward as those of the American Revolution, and their consequences were considerably more far-reaching.
The first complete sentence in English is "These are the words ofoxycution of 1 Sweet Jesus" and it's acrostic.
Professor: If you genuinely believe that a straightforward reading is the only possible interpretation, then why are you writing me such a long e-mail asking me about various different interpretations?
A straightforward question deserves a straightforward answer, not one filled with ambiguity.
The third climate region, located in the middle of the United States, consists of the southern half of Nebraska, most of Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, and the majority of Arkansas and Louisiana.
The goal of the book is to make the direct study of Anglo-Saxon England in the Middle Ages less daunting for the average student by providing a straightforward resource.
The current mining operations are not generating a profit due to cut-throat competition and because they are only using outdated methods of excavation which are straightforward and hence cheap.
The procedure was quite straightforward. First the patient is put to sleep. After the incision is made and internal organs are exposed...
She gave him a straightforward answer that she wasn't going to attend the conference.
Straightforward cases of defamation should be easy to defend yourself against in a court of law.
It gave a solution that was simple and straightforward.
The Nazis considered Catholics to be enemies, and persecuted them as a means of eliminating Christianity from their society.
The policies you suggest are sound, but entitlement to vote should be extended only to involve people with a direct, first hand knowledge of the matters in question, so those whose livelihoods are not involved and do not pay tax or National Insurance clearly should
The subject of dinosaurs has become increasingly popular over the years, with many children and adults interested in learning more about these fascinating creatures, ...
The Nazis sought to classify Jews based upon their perceived "racial" characteristics and not upon more general factors such as the extent of their religious practices, with the intent of implementing a "straightforward" division.
The second idea is more straightforward; we can simply work out the distance from Earth to Mars.
The downfall of the Nazis was a straightforward military defeat; it wasn't so much a defeat of Germany as it was the defeating of the Nazi Regime.
"No, you watch the video and listen to my VOICE in this Unit. You've got the rest of your life to practice moving around on a screen.
His manner of speech was straightforward and unadorned, like that of any ordinary soldier.
His request was an understandable one, given that he was asking them either to leave their families for the sake of their country or to stay in what would probably be utter destitution and starvation.
We should give the accused a chance to defend themselves and hear their straightforward explanation of the events.
The beginning of the book is the most straightforward part: it sets out the background to the French Revolution.
The rise of the middle classes and growth of industry gave people less time for self-government, and so laws were made simpler and more straightforward.
Despite his assurance that the operation would be straightforward, George Lucas still thought it wise to take out a massive insurance policy.
The new law concerning immigration is a very straightforward and workable solution to the problem.
Jacob was always a straight-forward and honest man; he would never bamboozle or bull-shine you.
The issue of whether to have a straightforward or one with spirals was extensively debated among the group.
The treaty handed over control of the Panama Canal to Panama and resolved boundary conflicts concerning the Amazon Basin. It also settled a debt crisis by extending the repayment period and lowering the amount that had to be paid.
I think that is a straightforward and reasonable request.
A straightforward reading of the text reveals that Chaos was split into the Four Elements, which then formed the Universe.
The human brain has all the prerequisites needed for consciousness, and there is no reason to suppose that an organic system such as a brain cannot produce a consciousness.
I am by nature a straightforward person: I have always had a problem with face-saving.
He wanted things to be fair and thought Watson's plan was the most straightforward way of dealing with the problem.
The Suez Canal was constructed in an attempt to provide a faster and more affordable route for ships travelling from Britain to India, rather than the longer and more expensive route involving journeys around the southern tip of Africa.
In a truly rational and straightforward world, tax evasion would be unacceptable and those who perpetrated it would be treated harshly.
Although his premise is true, the conclusion he reaches from it is not so straightforward.
A theory that questions property laws is not a straightforward statement of intent, but a request for comment.
That is a simple question that deserves a straightforward answer.
Straightforward and obvious, her advice was to fire the old group and hire a new one.
In the twentieth century, however, the rise of dictatorships in many parts of the world required a different kind of political theory.
I think that decision was a little too straightforward and simple for someone like you.
His main argument is that computer viruses will never be a serious threat because they are not intelligent and cannot evolve, and that advanced preventative measures can be taken to ensure their downfall.
I wanted to ask this question to a firsthand witness of these events and I'm satisfied with the answer I've received.
His style is simple and straightforward, without being simplistic, and he is honest to acknowledge when he does not know something.
She was a straightforward teacher and would always give you detailed answers if you asked her something.
"A straightforward plan that could immediately end the fighting"
"However, her involvement with the group ceased when she joined the Church"
The period of Japanese history from 645 to 668 is often considered to be the most straightforward of times.
From the beginning, the founder of Testificate thought it was obvious that God wanted him to separate from the rest of the Church.
Going from these English to Early Christian Latin translations of the Jewish Scriptures,the story of Jonah is the most straightforward.
The most straightforward reading of this text implies that we should make full use of the natural resources available to us and expand into space
The American strategies proved to be very straightforward when Britain finally surrendered the following year.
The expression on her face was controlled and calm, yet also proud and straightforward.
In World War I, Germany's goal was straightforward: it wanted to seize territory from France using its superior military power.
When the theory was first proposed, it was thought to be a dead simple explanation of the evolution of life.
A straightforward question about what he did that day in great detail would likely reveal the truth behind all of this.
His achievements in Aerial Defense were straightforward and well documented; he used planes to shoot down other planes.
The study of Latin is considered by many to be a difficult language to learn, however it is a worthwhile pursuit as the knowledge is ubiquitous and useful in all manner of fields such as medicine, law and history.
Not wishing to engage in a battle he knew he would lose, the king chose to avoid confrontation and addressed the situation in a straightforward manner.
Theories of time can be complex but in my opinion they should be as straightforward as possible
The term is usually used to imply that the speaker is giving a command. In this case, it implies that the speaker believes that you understand your orders and that you will obey them without question.
His reasons were direct and straightforward: he considered them wicked.
The steps are straightforward: you need to fill in the registration form, hand in your essay and pass the final exam.
Surprisingly, it was relatively straightforward to collect data on the ground during the Cold War.
The first step in explaining something is to make it as simple and straightforward as possible, so that it can be easily understood by everyone.
Kant's theory, to my mind, is one of the most straightforward and thus easiest to understand of all the philosophers you have covered thus far in this class.
Kant's theory, to my mind, is one of the most straightforward and thus easiest to understand of all the philosophers you have covered thus far in this class.
In the end, it should be common sense that if you are given a language in which to communicate, then communicating in a straightforward manner will lead to the best outcomes for all.
