

#commonplace

Ironically the very traits that once made them great are now commonplace in the average man on the street, meaning they no longer stand out as extraordinary.
Most of human existence for much of history was concerned with finding one's place in society, as the common saying that "women are born to please men and birth children" illustrates.
However what may be commonplace knowledge for you such as knowledge of Shakespeare's work was lost during the Burning of the Library of Alexandria
It was commonplace for children in these schools, as young as six, to be working twelve-hour days with short intervals for sleep and food.
Farmers found this knowledge to be commonplace and essential for their day-to-day activities.
Using terms like "common sense" and phrases like "it stands to reason" are commonplace in everyday speech, but their exact meaning, as well as their origins, remains unclear to most people.
'Commonplace' is a word that has lost its meaning due to its over-use.
"It is commonplace in science that every theory be challenged as a matter of course."
The difficulties in establishing a health system for the entire nation were commonplace in many countries during that period.
Commonplace during that era, it was an accepted practice for for rulers to assassinate their rivals, the closer the rival was the throne, the more likely it was they would be targeted.
It was commonplace for criminals to be punished by public displays such as hangings.
Farmers in the past did not live as comfortable a life as most people living today and their lives were often filled with drudgery, especially in the early morning and during the harvest.
However, it is only in the last few decades that women have become commonplace in the workplace.
However, if the king continued to abuse his power, rebellious talk would become more commonplace.
Her marriage was the usual commonplace of l
Most of the citizens in that period believed the content of their dreams to be commonplace, or at least thought little more of them.
Intelligent beings first tamed horses and used them for transportation. This simple fact had profound military and social consequences which are still felt today. The commonplace nature of horses leads people to underestimate their importance in human society.
Working in a coal mine was grueling, back-breaking work and commonplace for the poor.
The commonplace book of a seventeenth-century Englishwoman contained recipes, knitting patterns and thoughts on the day-to-day life of an aristocratic woman.
One of the most commonplace sights in London during the Victorian era was the homeless person sleeping in the streets.
The steamship was at the time a commonplace invention and its success was in no doubt.
The idea that humans inhabit a hierarchical society in which the high-born are destined to rule and the low-born are destined to serve is commonplace in medieval literature.
While some may see it as commonplace, my ability to walk is something I am grateful for.
As common as it was for sea captains in the past to cross the Atlantic Ocean in the early 17th century, it was also commonplace for them to die in the process.
The idea that the sun went around the earth was a commonplace belief among many European societies at this time.
A commonplace book is a notebook in which you can collect passages, or copies of passages, of literature which you come across in your daily life.
During the second World War, my own grandmother wore trousers during the everyday and commonplace activities such as working in the field.
The invention of the telescope was by no means a commonplace occurrence.
In early human culture, it was commonplace for tribes to engage in ritualistic cannibalism of their dead foes as a trophy and proof of one's accomplishments.
Life expectancy was short and commonplace diseases such as tuberculosis, pneumonia and other infections were killers.
The staple food throughout most of Europe is wheat; it was a commonplace diet for the average family.
The most commonplace accomplishment of the ancient Mesopotamians was their creation of the urban community.
Life in the early human settlements was fraught with danger, and death was commonplace.
She lived in a basement flat, but returned from her travails to a very different London where streets were brightly lit and the Thames was just another forefront of the industrialized city.
The existence of a Quonset Hut on the edge of campus was once a commonplace sight on early 20th century American campuses.
Fingerprinting is now so commonplace it is now used to identify unknown criminals and even terrorists.
At the time, in that region, life for women was very restricted and commonplace.
The event caused a fundamental change in the course of Western European history and became commonplace in modern warfare.
I tried to focus on the commonplace, prosaic nature of pre-twentieth-century life.
In everyday life, people often use the word "freedom" loosely in celebrations of its positive effects.
The Roman's many accomplishments during their long reign rendered their traditions and beliefs commonplace in the nation.
During the medieval period coins were a commonplace item, but they have gradually been replaced by paper and other financial instruments.
Thespis, the earliest playwright known by name, developed a new type of drama that was commonplace in theatre until well into the twentieth century: dialogue between characters.
Thomas Edison's light bulb was once a commonplace product for everyday use in not only the United States' households, but also for those in Europe.
At the time, many outbreaks of the plague were commonplace in crowded areas like those found in cities.
It was commonplace for the clergy of different Christian faiths to insult and mock each other in their writings.
The dark, rain-soaked streets of London before the invention of street lighting must have been a very dangerous place, fraught with pickpockets, cutthroats and footpads.
With the demise of religion and the omnipresence of the internet and mass media, superstition is less commonplace than it once was.
The existence of crop circles is commonplace knowledge nowadays, but it is a relatively new concept.
His ideas about society were commonplace; some of them were even radical for his times.
His wife's death, his dismissal and the subsequent night of horrors he experienced at Verdun were all commonplace experiences of World War I.
Many considered the fall of the Empire at the hands of seemingly less worthy people to be an indication of the decline in the importance of gods and goddesses in daily life.
Peter Railton's commonplace book contains drawings of human skeletons, plants and animals.
His life was commonplace and lacked any eventful occurrences.
A commonplace book is a notebook in which one copies passages from texts one has read, either to refer to them elsewhere or to record them for reference.
‘The prince stopped, turned towards Saladin, and in a loud voice declared that the Kingdom of Jerusalem would one day be the Centre of Christianity in the East, like it was in the Common Place.
"speeding is commonplace on residential streets these days"
Religious persecution of the Jews was commonplace in the eras before and after the time of Christ.
Buckminster Fuller's design for a salt flat dome home was an idea that was commonplace before the technology to build it didnt exist.
The long casual skirts and turtle-necks that were common place in the seventies are no longer fashionable.
The major events of the first world war, including the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand, have become commonplace knowledge to people studying or interested in the history of this era.
In his last moments of life, he believes that a commonplace occurance has metamorphosed into a magnificent carriage, driven by a coachman in livery, with a maiden inside whose face was illuminated by an inner radiance.
It was commonplace in the 16th century to execute people for offences such as poaching.
It was commonplace for rulers in the ancient world to have many wives and concubines.
Water purification is commonplace in many parts of the developed world, but it is still lacking in much of the developing world.
However, the move towards safer vaccines was extremely difficult for him to accept as he believed that vaccines in liquid form were commonplace and would not argue with his fellow doctors about it.
A picture of the human brain appeared in his textbook on human anatomy, a commonplace example of scientific illustration at the time
It's commonplace for mothers to talk to their children from the moment they are first born.
Professor: As you know, the development of capitalism in England eventually led to the English revolution and the Guilded Age.
how and why did the dinosaurs become extinct? ... Dinosaurs became extinct about 65 million years ago, for reasons that are still the subject of research and discussion among scientists.
Although the first phase of the Industrial Revolution was really the implementation of new technology in manufacturing processes, the second phase was the development of new technology
Religions tend to draw on elements of culture and subculture, as do other social organizations, from clubs to professional organizations.
Working in a coal mine was the wage-earning equivalent of manual labor and commonplace for the poor.
She was starting to feel that raising children, going to church, and taking care of a household were all part of a commonplace existence.
Your session with this professor ends here.
At that time, due to the political unorthodoxy of his ideas, Hume's support for independence was a commonplace, but he himself never turned his theories into practice.
Working on a farm in the eighteenth century was commonplace for most people living in North America and Europe.
For commonplace books, diaries and letters were the social media of the past for people to spout their ideas on paper
For the most part, the occurrence of floods in the same location is commonplace.
Having run water, indoor toilets and electricity was once a commonplace in many homes; nowadays it is no longer considered as a necessity.
The institution of slavery was commonplace in the New World, and European nations were divided over whether to support it or not.
The fear of death and the belief in an afterlife are commonplace concepts and have been present since the beginning of civilization.
Just as in modern times, commonplace books were used by scholars to record passages which they thought were important.
In the early twenty-first century, computers had become so commonplace that most people ignored their existence even though they depended on them for many aspects of their everyday lives.
The periodic rise of dictatorships in the 20th century made concentration camps a common feature of the political landscape in many parts of the world.
The ancients believed that objects that fell from the sky were a gift from the gods and as such, the 17th-century alchemists believed that common metals such as lead and copper were precious metals in their purest form.
During the Victorian era, the ownership of wrist watches was still very much a rarity as they were still very much a luxury item, and not yet a commonplace accessory for most people.
The sun rising in the morning is a commonplace experience, just as the use of the extended metaphor is a commonplace feature of language.
His desire to create art, which was for him a common place activity, become more and more rare as he pursued his studies in philosophy.
The French Revolutionary idea of emancipation was first practiced on a large scale during the American Civil War, when the Union set about emancipating Negro slaves.
Rome's greatness and dominance was taken for granted by most people of ancient times, just as
One of the most common animals on the planet, the Aedes aegypti mosquito has been linked to a host of human diseases such as yellow fever, dengue fever and the Zika virus.
The common misconception that tortoises breathe through their ears is just one of many examples of ignorance in regards to reptiles.


#contentious

The British Empire's policy of settling the North American continent was a contentious issue throughout American history.
The boundary between Canada and the US has always been highly contentious.
Most Pakistanis are Muslim and regard Ahmadis as Christians, but the community of Ahmadis regard themselves as Muslims and the constitution of Pakistan describes them as such.
Cursory examination of these pages will reveal the content to be highly contentious and libelous towards the British government and the British army in particular.
While some regard it as an overblown and tedious political tract, others view it as an amazingly prescient and controversial novel.
Some people believe there should be a limit to the amount of money an individual can donate to a political party, but this is a contentious issue and many politicians are vehemently opposed to such limits.
Though the treaty had been approved by a council of Saxon nobles, the Norman conquest was nevertheless viewed as a Norman invasion by most of the Saxon population, and therefore remained as a source of much contentious feeling throughout Norman rule.
Your question is a bit too complex for me, sorry. I just can't come with anything appropriate.
The move has proved highly contentious among the town's population, with thousands taking to the streets to protest against it.
Although my views on this are still the minority, I believe nuclear power is a clean and safe method of generating electricity.
On one side of the issue are political moderates, who think that the demonstrations should be limited in scope and duration, with an early end definitely planned out in advance.
His dismissal of the other candidate's policies are based on their being contentious and lacking in the proper foundations.
The decision to drop the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki has been a particularly contentious issue, and continues to remain so even today.
Many people do not agree with his policies on free speech, thinking them too contentious.
The current legislature has made some contentious new laws on the trade of certain animals, which resulted in loud protests from hunters and pet owners.
The mayor's decision to grant tax exemptions to all artists and their studios within the city limits has been highly contentious with other city authorities.
The theory that the continents are moving slowly across the globe is a contentious issue in the world of geology.
Between science and religion, little is more contentious than the subject of creation.
A prominent Christian and foremost Biblical scholar of his era, Eusebius was instrumental in shaping the development of early Christianity.
His paper on the linguistic origins of the Indian people and culture has proved to be highly contentious, but still stands as an important documentation of early research into what are now known as the Indo-European languages.
The issues surrounding the creation and teaching of the new theory of evolution caused a number of contentious debate within the scientific community.
A highly ambitious atheistic concept that contains much controversy over the meaning of "unbeliever".
The issues surrounding the definition of marriage have always been somewhat contentious.
Recent developments in the relationship between the government and the media are of particular interest as they are subject to much contention among social commentators.
The division of Germany after World War II is one of the most contentious issues in European history.
The issue of a proposed mine in the wilderness has created a highly contentious debate in environmental circles.
Your use of the word 'contentious' is apt here. As we saw above, the issue of whether or not "Vercingetorix surrendered at Alesia"
While the project has proven to be very lucrative for the company, it has been a highly contentious issue due to environmental concerns.
Traditionally, the Catholic Church had been the most intellectual institution supportive of the system.
Her argument about the flaws in the voting system is quite contentious among the population.
The decision to go to war is always a contentious issue, as are the reasons for launching one.
The history of the Arab-Israeli conflict is a contentious issue.
Some of the ideas of the Suffragettes were in fact contentious, and even today articles are published which still call them terrorists.
The proposal to build a shopping mall in the countryside was very contentious, attracting much heated discussion : opponents pointed to the inevitable ecological damage, while the developer suggested that it would bring much needed employment to the area.
I think that the contentious clause in the contract has been forgotten,
The move is likely to prove contentious among employees.
Many people think that the war on terror has failed, but few of them are aware of the numerous terrorist attacks that have been prevented due to increasinglycontentious measures introduced to protect our nations.
Some of the decisions he made regarding the curriculum were very contentious, and they weren't accepted by all students of the college.
Pisanus' letter implies his support for the Franks and his disagreement with Roman policy by claiming that the sacking of the city was down to the treachery of its inhabitants rather than the mismanagement of the Romans.
His ideas on hierarchy and authority are still considered contentious by many modern academics.
The groups were united by a common desire to change some aspects of the school, but deeply divided over what those changes should be and the means of implementing them.
The ideological differences between the Earthbound colonies and the 'Belters' were more than merely geographical in nature; they represented two distinct, conflicting ideologies- an ongoing source of tension and a potential flashpoint for conflict between them.
His argument that all knowledge can be traced back to a single source is particularly contentious.
The issues involved in this area are particularly contentious.
The deadline for the withdrawal of British troops from Irish soil was a highly contentious issue during negotiations.
The notion that genes contain the instructions for the development of organisms is a hotly contentious issue in the scientific community.
The ongoing debate concerning the effectivness of teaching geometric proofs was a contentious issue in mathematics education.
The issue of the burial place of Pallas was one of the most contentious issues in classical archaeology.
The proposal of introducing a clothing optional beach was highly contentious in the local community.
The issues around the sovereignty of the Azores is a contentious topic between Portugal and Spain.
He is a particularly opinionated with a somewhat self-important attitude, but he lacks any contentious traits that would suggest an unreasonable nature.
The belief that the religious founder of the Sikh religion was the last prophet was a very contentious issue in Indian history, causing divisions and disagreements between Hindus and Sikhs during the 19th century.
A central theme of the book is the
Respected and admired by all the citizens of his town, the mayor was a non-contentious man who always tried to help his community.
When the time came for the conversion of the people to be initiated, the views of Paul and that of Peter were found to be contentious.
Though the Irish Potato Famine of the 1840s was catastrophic and had many long-term social ramifications, at the time it was viewed as an inevitable act of God and no diplomatic papers of the time make any reference to it.
The issue of same-gender marriage is a very contentious one, with strong opinions on both sides.
The theory that a small elite group controlled the world's economy was a particularly contentious one in the 19th century.
His view on Palestinian self-determination is certainly contentious among our patrons here in Israel.
The theories he proposed in the book were extremely contentious and many other academics refused to believe them.
In addition to the recent terrorist attacks, the plan to plant bombs in crowded buildings has always been a contentious issue within the organization.
The debate over whether the United Kingdom should remain in the European Union has been contentious in academic and political circles.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The topics of study in the humanities are often regarded as too subjective and contentious to be worthy of academia.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The decision to give Yun an official warning was certainly contentious within the office environment at the time.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.Most scholarship on the period is written from a pro-confederacy viewpoint, and more objective accounts are often dismissed as being pro-Union. This makes the study of the Civil War a particularly contentious issue in the United States.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The issue of same-gender marriage has proved to be quite contentious.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The ongoing debate about whether Pluto should be classified as a planet is a contentious issue, to say the least.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.Although slavery was then generally accepted in the American south, there were some free African Americans who were still against it.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The issue of allowing women to fight in the military has been a contentious one in recent years.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.A priest's role in society is primarily to serve and look after the spiritual needs of the people in his community. This is a pretty uncontroversial role, and one you're unlikely to find many people taking exception to.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The concept of using dead bodies to aid medical science was a source of some contention in 19th century England.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The topic of whether or not to involve the police in domestic disputes is a very contentious one in the neighborhood watch movement.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The issue of the separation between church and state is considered to be something that not everyone agrees upon, with many people considering it to be a contentious matter.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The theories he proposed in the 'Origins of Man' regarding the early existence of humanity were highly contentious and have long since been proven to be completely inaccurate.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The content of our classes has been considered contentious for some years, as many people see evolution as going against religious belief.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.Clement's decision to extend toleration to the Jews was highly contentious, as many of the Gentiles were still angry at their treatment during the rebellion and demanded their expulsion
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The issue of gay marriage is a contentious one within the United States, with opponents claiming that it infringes on traditional family values and supporters claiming that it extends equal rights to all citizens.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The move by the government to replace voluntary with mandatory national service is highly contentious.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The map is considered to be the first document to show an extensive outline of mainland Australia and as such is a valuable historic document of Australian colonisation.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The decision to allow private companies to extend the London Underground into their area has been controversial.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.His argument about the adverse effects of industrialization was at the time considered to be contentious, as it flew in the face of centuries of classical economic theory.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.Some argue that the more challenging aspects of Peter Jackson's adaptation of The Lord of the Rings are due to his filmmaking style, while others view them as a betrayal of the novels and their story.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.Some of the issues in this area are very contentious and the motivations of the scientists involved in it are questioned by many.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.There is much disagreement surrounding the issue of abortion, but proponents argue that it should be a woman's right to decide what happens to her own body
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.The issues surrounding the Israel-Palestine dispute are highly contentious and often subject to heated debate.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.Regrettably, Hunt's legacy includes more than just his views on women; other aspects of his theory are still considered contentious among his successors.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.Some of their decision has been subject to much criticism from the other associations and fans.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.Some critics believe that the relevant part of the communications act ought to be amended to put an end to what they say is a contentious issue.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.His ideas on art were often very contentious and as a result he was exiled from the United States, which at that time, wasn't as liberal as it is now.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.Einstein's Theory of Relativity was a contentious issue among the physics community at the time.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.His view on the origins of the First World War being largely due to the Austro-Hungarian annexation of Bosnia is considered to be a particularly contentious one.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.His claims are not particularly contentious, as long as you accept that he has a point.


#conventional

The development of the conventions of grammar and syntax is necessary for any even halfway competent writer of English to ensure that their meaning is clear.
While the theory that the Knights Templars were involved in heresy is still popular, it is considered a somewhat more 'conventional' theory.
Conventional warfare between Greek city states declined in the face of Antigonid, and later Macedonian, dominance.
It is conventional wisdom that governments should raise the money they need through taxation.
Nelson was a larger than life character who's gambling and womanizing were considered unconventional even in an age where conventions were much looser than today.
Conventional oil is crude oil that can be drilled through, though not as easily as 'light sweet crude', the conventional oil of ancient times.
Despite her unconventional beliefs she was almost made a saint in the Roman Catholic Church.
The hot cross bun has long since changed from the Christian symbol of eternal life to a largely conventional sweet bread, but still maintains its symbolic link to the festival of Easter.
Your choice of college major is very conventional.
The Boers of South Africa were very conventional farmers and hated the idea of being ruled from London.
The students did not want to listen to conventional boring lectures which were based on the professor's personal notes.
The US had placed atomic weapons in Europe, upsetting the Soviet Union, who in turn placed their own in East Germany. The US feared conventional war would turn nuclear, so they attempted to negotiate.
Unconventional, daring and unusually boldcharacterized his guerrilla warfare tactics.
Judith Butler, one of the most influential and highly regarded feminist scholars in the world today.
It is common belief that the theory of evolution has completely revolutionised biology, whereas in actuality, many theories that were first formulated hundreds of years ago are still both relevant and widely accepted within the scientific community.
Conventional weapons such as tanks and missiles can only do so much damage to an enemy, and are useless once the enemy has little infrastructure or population left.
The "Eternal Jew" is an offensive, anti-Semitic stereotype depicting the Jew as primitive, deceitful and inheriting the stereotypical image of theJesus Christ carried during crucifixion.
Most schools teach some conventional rules of grammar, even if they don't fully follow them in their writing.
The theories that the author presents in her book are very much conventional and demonstrate a lack of progression in her thinking.
The first tanks were slow, heavy, unreliable, and break-down prone, but they were powerful weapons in the right conditions and became a vital asset to the Allied forces that eventually helped to turn the tide of war in favour of the Allies.
His unconventional thinking and unwillingness to play by the rules is what caused them to not hire him despite having more than sufficient experience.
The term conventional weapons is defined as including all naval, air and land-based weapons that do not fall into the categories of biological, chemical or nuclear.
His Conventional thinking is perhaps what made him an innovative architect.
The change to more conventional weapons and tactics ensured that the war would be won for the British side within a year of its commencement.
His unconventional ideas in physics were not accepted during his time, but ultimately went on to form the basis of modern theories.
David Hume's empiricist ideas were considered radical in his own time, but by the 20th century they had become conventional wisdom.
Conventional weapons bombing can be useful at times, but only in limited areas and circumstances as they are not effective
The belief among the scientific community that solar energy is the future of sustainable energy and fusion power is the future of solar energy.
The former head of the republic's conventional military was suspected to be involved in several terrorist attacks, but no hard evidence could be obtained to prove this.
CONVENTIONAL WAR; Wars fought between regular armies, using conventional tactics and weapons.
The theory of evolution describes the origin of species and variations between is due to conventional processes such as variation in genetic material, or through environmental factors.
Nietzsche often criticized conventional morality which he believed reduced the individual.
He disagreed with the then common view that ghosts were the spirits of the dead, arguing instead that they were created by either the human mind or physical conditions such as fog.
The Victorian notions of morality, especially sexual morality, were conventional and you didn't go against those ideas unless you had a very good reason
Conventional educational standards were not as high then, so people were not as concerned about them.
His theory of nuclear fission is based on conventional wisdom and known formulas, not conjecture.
The first works of biological classification were developed in the early 18th century, a time when conventional ideas of real science still did not apply to biology.
Diogenes was a very unconventional man—an atheist and a cynic, who used humor to mock everything that was taken seriously by society.
After the war North Korea became even more repressive than it was before, with a conventional army as well as a strong emphasis on the military.
While some see the protests as a natural consequence of the freedom that the Internet affords, others condemn them as conventional behaviour of "trolls".
By their conventional nature, they have no choice but to be submissive and accommodating.
The original story of the monster has no surviving antecedents or parallels in other cultures, and it may be a distorted version of a remotely conceivable historical event, such as a devastating tsunami in the region.
The Gregorian calendar we use today was developed by the Catholic Church in 1585—before that the most common system was that developed by Julius Caesar, and used throughout the ancient world.
While the book challenges many conventional ideas about society's values and norms, most of his arguments are unconvincing.
Conventional weapons such as guns, tanks and other instruments of death played no major role in the Second World War.
The Indian National Congress was conceived as a forum to discuss issues relating to British rule over India and not, as is often believed, a convention for seeking India's independence from the British Empire.
Your choice of major is not going to shape your future life as a career choice like medicine or law does, however it will be important in deciding what you want to do in the next few years.
A word has become conventional when it is accepted by society.
Under British rule, the Indian independence movement was largely driven by two overlapping interests; the emergence of a large educated middle class among the Indians that had been exposed to Western ideas, and the interests of the ruling British East India Company which increasingly feared popular
Prior to leading the Russian armies into Eastern Europe, Napoleon had won a series of battles in Spain.
His ideas are highly conventional and don't offer anything new or innovative to the field of study.
In medicine the ancient Greek physician Galen, whose theories dominated medical thought for fourteen centuries, was a prime advocate of this approach.
During World War II, Joseph Stalin, as the Head of Government, invoked the state of emergency and revoked all of the civil liberties established in the constitution.
However, in reality, it was merely a conventional gesture by an unconventional leader
The conventional view of the Renaissance emphasizes its cultural and artistic achievements.
In the nineteenth century, most doctors believed that the best medicine was conventional medicine.
Only by avoiding conventional routes can you truly achieve anything in life.
But by the 1920s, the emphasis had shifted back to the conventional classroom setting.
Although they are relatively young, popular talk-radio hosts, the pair have already succeeded in challenging some long-established views and attitudes on a variety of subjects, and their advocacy of certain social causes has contributed to the changing national consensus on issues such
His views on theatre were quite conventional for his time—theatres were dirty, evil dens that corrupted morals
The conventional understanding of the Gospels is that they were written shortly after Christ's death by people who actually knew him.
This is the same collection of words I used when I created this assignment for the first time, but I still have plenty of sentences with other words. I will add more every week.
The idea that the Earth is surrounded by invisible planetary spheres, used to explain some aspects of astronomical observations, was considered a convention for many centuries after the ancient Greeks first proposed it, until the 1500s when evidence became overwhelming that it was incorrect.
By the 1800s, European armies began using more powerful and conventional guns.
in the conventional understanding of those terms, in which the military are the good guys who protect us from invasion, keep order on the streets, etc.
In the eighteenth century it did not occur to anyone that such a convention could ever be set aside, but in the next century it was cast aside as old-fashioned and unrealistic.
Indeed, some historians claim that these victories had become so commonplace for the Assyrians during this period that they became somewhat complacent in their methods of conquest and in general.
Conventional wisdom has it that the invention of more sophisticated farming techniques resulted in overpopulation, and consequently the need for migration of large groups of people.
The British people's reluctance to embrace military engagement against the conventional forces of Nazi Germany in 1939 has been blamed on several factors.
While there is no doubt the work was partly created to flatter a ruler who had absolute power, conventional artistic standards were not completely ignored.
The basic premise behind the "Ghost Dance" was a simple one: if all the white people were dead, they would could no longer oppress the Native Americans, who would regain their original lands.
George Washington's rise to power from the convention of the First Continental Congress in 1774 exemplifies his conventional approach to life.
Your question about conventional weapons reminds me of a joke about World War I. "What do you call a sword used for slashing another soldier?" "A conventional weapon."
It is conventional to state that the city was destroyed by the Mongols in 1241, but in reality for this to happen, there would have needed to be structures for them to destroy.
Her argument that the Elizabethan theatre was an undeniably important reflection of its time is a rather conventional one.
Many conventional tactics such as digging trenches and keeping soldiers in the safer areas near the stronghold stopped the enemy from being able to wear you down.
The United States continued to pursue conventional forces to combat Communist expansion in Asia despite the seeming success of the Marshall Plan.
The limitations on the power of the Spanish monarch, as set out in the Spanish Constitution, make the position of King of Spain today vastly different from that of a conventional European monarchy.
Your choice of major is not conventional. Most students in your class are studying business or education, but you are in the far less popular creative writing track.
The technologies what reject the use of animal fat in candle making were not considered unconventional at the time.
The General is something of a military genius but like most conventional military men he doesn't see the need for change.
The spirit still thrives in conventional western art.
The conventional battlefield of the eighteenth century was a place of smoke, noise and flashing bayonets.
Conventional warfare between the Israelis and the Arabs, as well as conventional warfare between the two dominant American political parties (the Democrats and Republicans).
The period between 1890 and 1914 is sometimes called the ‘Conventional Era'.
At the time, the most widely accepted opinions on the matter were the conventional wisdom of that time.
His solution to the problem was hardly conventional and relied on the use of magic, hence why he became a figure of ridicule among his papal successors in later years.
Conventional weapons such as guns, cannons and bombs did not figure largely in these conflicts.
The theory that the sun revolves around the Earth is no longer considered to be accurate by conventional standards, however up until a few centuries ago everybody believed it to be true.
Bu t today, the modern New South Africa is rapidly becoming a conventional, issue based politics with strong elements of identity politics.
Catholic missionaries penetrated to far-flung regions of the world like China and Africa in the quest to spread the faith.
Nuclear fusion is very different from the nuclear fission that takes place in current nuclear reactors, which means that a new set of engineering challenges must be overcome to develop an economically viable fusion power plant.
I think one needs to step away from conventional methods to solve this problem.
Coldplay's music is conventional, catchy and appeals to a wide audience.
The widespread assumption that Suu Kyi's response to the Rohingya crisis is driven by her desire to appeal to the majority Burmese electorate and avoid losing votes is a cynical and overly-simplistic analysis based on partisan, conventional thinking.
She was educated in the conventional style of late 18th-century Europe
Darwin's unconventional theory of evolution by natural selection was severely criticized by many contemporaries, especially in the conventional and authoritative medical community.
Many believe that this strategy (invading Iraq to prevent the spread of WMDs) was sensible and logical, some even argue that it was absolutely necessary.
The American government's official stance on the issue of extraterrestrial life had always been one of denial: that UFOs and such related topics are of "no credible evidence" and all claims or sightings can be explained away by conventional theories.


#endorse

The liberal candidate has received the formal endorsement of the local paper for the upcoming presidential elections.
The Conservatives decided not to endorse the candidate because they thought she was too far left for their liking.
In 1793, during the French Revolution, King Louis XVI was executed, largely due to his refusal to endorse the Constitutional Assembly's previous actions.
Some say that when a new sports stadium is built it will bring in more businesses and revenue to the city. Others argue that is not the case due to increased spending on the police force.
The work was not officially endorsed by the government; however, it was not banned either.
The party faithful endorsed the presidential candidate's view on gun control, which angered the gun lobby.
As a leading member of the National Rifle Association, she endorsed the Republican candidate in the forthcoming presidential elections.
A leader of the merchant class, Francesco Datini was very reluctant to endorse government policies that would lead to higher taxes for him and other merchants.
Since she was running against the incumbent, her main goal was to get endorsements from other politicians and enjoy the benefits of their name recognition.
The U.N. has not stepped in to endorse the American military excursion and I doubt they will.
Rasputin's enemies finally managed to get him exiled from St. Petersburg by tricking Nicholas into believing that he was an evil influence on his daughter, the only person Nicholas ever fully listened to.
The government endorsed with three football teams.
None of the actors in the movie wanted to endorse it because of its subject matter, but once it was completed it gained national attention and critical acclaim.
He decided not to endorse her after disagreeing with her stance on the need for a wall between the US and Mexico.
The 2677th annual meeting of the New Wales Society of Endorsers and Non-Endorsers was met this afternoon to consider a proposal from the Splitsville Chapter of Endorsers that the society endorse the United States Protective Tariff
Many of the individual colonies themselves issued official endorsements for the declaration of independence.
It has become clear that the fractured political landscape in the Middle East is hindering the possibility of regional peace, and this can only be endorsed by the governments in the West.
The United States would not take any actions to endorse the actions of the Polish government.
Do you think the Pope should have the right to endorse political candidates as part of his religious duty?
The town councilors claimed he was not suitable for the position because they thought he would not be able to accurately do the job, a decision which they made without interviewing him first.
The only problem is I don't know how much of what he says can be trusted given that his organisation endorses the use of violence and coercion in order to promote its aims.
A theory is nothing more than a set of hypotheses based on observations, and facts are the trials used to endorse or disprove theories.
The accepted view at the time was that the Great Pyramid of Giza was built by the Biblical Noah as a tomb for himself.
Although the government has not officially endorsed it, it has accepted the proposal of a national health service.
Around the time of his arrest for theft, police also discovered a counterfeit credit card in Williamson's possession, leading many to believe he was also involved in the series of thefts that had been taking place in the town over the past year
The failure of the Party to endorse my actions in the public eye is regrettable.
The prime minister's decision to reestablish the position of deputy prime minister, which had not been used in more than a decade, was seen to be an endorsement of the growing power of the moderate party.
"What, by opposing these men do you suppose you will remedy the matter? You will rather incur their undying enmity, and add your name to the list of their supporters who have preceded you to the grave."
Academic research sources are usually expected to endorse scholarly methods and ethical stances in their work.
As the priests have never been elected to their office, nor endorsed by other people, they deem it tyrannical for anyone to endeavour to take it from them.
The leading action-chamber of his day, he endorsed laws to reduce global warming and heavily criticised the use of fossil fuels.
The university's official stance is to neither endorse nor oppose such things, and all funding for them comes from private donations.
I have carefully worded the letter so that didn't specifically "endorse" any candidate, but at the same time I didn't say anything negative about any of them either.
The Prime Minister refused to endorse the candidate, and as a result he was defeated in the election.
It is important that the governments endorse these ideals, rather than acting to undermine them.
I'm not sure if they actually endorse him, but there are rumors that his party's willing to accept him as their candidate.
Laws passed in 1861 and 1866 to endorse nationwide voting, registration, or other civil rights.
The Council of Trent eventually endorsed the findings of the Reformation, but only after a century of religious wars between Catholics and Protestants.
Ian McKenzie,
The Prime minister's statement agreed with the content of the letter but did not endorse its tone.
Jacob and Noah were two of the few who endorsed that viewpoint.
The website doesn't endorse upcoming events on their homepage.
Our company has always endorsed slander of all kinds against its workers.
powerful and rich, but her greatest source of power was the ability to endorse a candidate.
The American Red Cross has decided not to endorse the Law of the Charter on Human Rights, claiming that it has been drafted by foreign lawyers and is therefore not suitable for American society.
And that was probably a deliberate endorsement of his safety by the pirates.
She refused to endorse the candidate, since his position on immigration was too moderate for her tastes.
The peace initiative was endorsed by both political parties.
During World War II, the United States government used its art in a propaganda campaign to endorse its policies
On the German front, the United States never officially endorsed the policy of total war.
The historical consensus is that Nero did not directly light the fire, and is not believed to have endorsed anyone else to do it.
"In the end, philosophers are only the keepers of their age's ideas; it is up to the scientists and other thinkers of the time to endorse or disprove their theories."
There is nothing homophobic about opposing gay marriage. I might endorse same-race marriage, for instance.
At the time, a former British prime minister's endorsement of nuclear energy was a rare example of a political figure endorsing a policy position contrary to his own party's stand.
The legal system of ancient Israel relied on witnesses, and those who endorsed false testimony undermined their own credibility.
As a former university professor with over 20 books in print, he is one of the most successful academics ever to write speculative fiction.
"I would not endorse such a policy."
The US department of Defence has never officially endorsed the story that it was the Russians who hacked into their system.
The government has failed to endorse the proposed bill.
Marketing executives have unequivocally condemned the plan, and have said they will not endorse it.
If you can't endorse his style, at least acknowledge the effectiveness of his strategy.
The leaders of the revolt were unwilling to endorse a candidate that they believed could not win.
"His bold remarks about the government seem to have been endorsed by two prominent opposition leaders", a newspaper reports.
The Canadian and U.S. governments endorse the policy recommendation.
I am not going to endorse this event.
While the Bill of Rights was an explicit endorsement of the idea that the king's rule was separate from the divine right of kings, it did not contain any indication that the laws of England were no longer binding.
Combining his endorsement with other endorsements, he managed to raise one million dollars in support of the museum.
The new law will be voted this week and the government is expecting to endorse it.
I would be happy to endorse you for the position, but I don't believe I can do the same for your friend as I've witnessed him engaging in behavior that was unbecoming of a future physician.
However, her agent says that she won't decide whether to endorse the candidate until he takes a stronger stance on corporate tax evasion.
In the name of Gandhi the ruling party has decided to endorse and approve laws that are non-secular.
It is important that we listen to our viewers and give them a TV show that they want to watch rather than try to force a TV show on them that we, as networks, think would be good.
I have attached a letter from Professor James Martin endorsing your request for the Ph.D degree.
Numerous celebrities and politicians endorsed the charity.
Although most political parties were reluctant to endorse him, thinking his views were too left wing, the Green Party showed willingness to endorse him for the next election.
I don't have time to endorse your project, but here are some tips:
The then prime minister refused to endorse his decision, and the general withdrew his comments.
"He was instrumental in fomenting rebellion in the region"
I will never endorse a candidate I don't believe will make a good leader for this country!
The representatives voted to endorse the actions of our government on this matter.
In the United States, candidates who want the endorsement of a major political party typically must prove their loyalty and dedication to that party.
The program has been endorsed by the Government.
He has already endorsed several bills in Parliament that were passed and become laws of the land.
Qaddafi has increasingly used these threats to endorse continuing terror attacks on Western targets.
I would not endorse a sweeping change of the present government.
The Prime Minister endorsed his leadership position by calling for a double dissolution of parliament, which the Governor-General granted.
In popular elections, candidates do not necessarily have to be endorsed by a political party.
The Party was not about to endorse a candidate without a thorough check into his or her beliefs and political leanings.
After endorsing his opponent in the last gubernatorial election, the Governor was successfully ousted by a massive voter recall.
I was told by my superior officer to endorse your application for a security clearance.


#exhaustive

This paper has so far discussed the historical importance of the twentieth century, yet only in an introductory and and cursory fashion. A truly exhaustive and encompassing discussion is unfortunately beyond the scope of this paper.
The extensive research the professor carried out to write his treatise on the American Civil War was exhaustive.
His book The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is an exhaustive account of the history of the Roman Empire, from the death of Marcus Aurelius in 180, to the fall of Constantinople in 1453.
However exhaustively we search, we don't find any evidence that he directly participated in the conflict.
Sincerity is a trait rarely seen in politics.
The cause of his sudden departure is not known, but an exhaustive investigation by the police revealed nothing.
It has been suggested that the early Christian Church was so exhaustive in its persecution of Pagans that the attacks drove the faith entirely underground, and was one of the factors that lead to the eventual downfall of Western Roman Empire.
His study of the cultures of eastern Asia was exhaustive; he published forty volumes on the subject.
Suffice it to say, the king spared no expense in his quest to capture the Count.
The history of early Christianity is not as well established and exhaustively researched as that of the ancient civilization from which it evolved.
Research into the human brain is still in its infancy, and much more remains to be discovered. Today's scientists are only just beginning to comprehend how the brain works and what it does.
The question you've asked seems obvious and the answer exhaustive.
The extensive lands of her family were divided into two portions, to the province of Lusitania, or to that ofcalled Gallaecia, and these countries were divided from each other by a region which was under the dominion of the
He has investigated these allegations in a very exhaustive way, and he says there's nothing more to it.
The judge ordered an exhaustive search of the house for any incriminating evidence.
Exhaustive research has been carried out in that the library here has pretty much every book written on the subject
His exhaustive research covers three centuries of European history, with an emphasis on...
The study of history requires an exhaustive study of primary and secondary sources.
He had systematically gone through countless primary sources and presented an exhaustive study on the development of English Law throughout the centuries.
It was an exhaustive study that took several years to complete, but the amount of detail proved beyond doubt that intelligence was a factor in understanding language and using it.
The judge ordered an exhaustive search of the premises for the suspect, who was wanted in three states for armed robbery and grand theft auto.
The process of creating new vaccines was very lengthy and required for the most part to be an exhaustively tested and laboured task.
The reasons for the rebellion are still somewhat unclear, although recent research has been more than a little insightful and exhaustive.
They tested every word in the English language using a massive computer to generate an exhaustive list of all words that could possibly meet the criteria.
Her translation of Shakespeare's complete works is exhaustive, containing original text as well as notes and criticism.
In the late 1920s, Stalin launched his own campaign of terror against perceived challengers within the party, which came to be known as the Great Purge.
In 112 AD, Pliny the Younger, who was governor of Bithynia in north-western Anatolia at the time, wrote one of the earliest and most exhaustive accounts of an earthquake.
The theories of the philosopher Plato were thought provoking and often very original, however being critical of writing, he did not express his ideas in written form or anything close to it, instead preferring his students to learn through his lectures
Lacking the resources to carry out an exhaustive investigation, police would have to settle for what evidence they had.
So far, the theoretical and analytical research on this topic has been rather exhaustive.
The extensive building program undertaken by the government includes the building of roads, bridges and public buildings, but its most famous project is the construction of an expansive highway from the city of Turik to the province of Kyros, a region known for its
These experiments yielded a host of new drugs which had not been exhaustively tested for safety, but great strides were made in understanding the human psyche.
The question of whether the Shadow Masters were an actual physical faction or a metaphor for the decline of civilization involved in endless conflict is one of the most exhaustively debated of all Kushite history.
His research is exhaustive, but unfortunately due to his failing eyesight, he misspelt several words in the introduction.
His research was exhaustive, and has become the definitive work on the first century wars between the Romans and the Wyverns.
In his famous speech to the American people after the 9-11 terrorist attacks, the US president described the events of that fateful day in exhaustive detail.
In a paper of this length, it would be impossible to give an exhaustive treatment of this issue.
The word "exhaustive" me
His other book, Provincial Governors, which covered most of the governors of the Roman provinces, had an exhaustive analysis of their rule and included many reports by informers.
Her research paper on cat genetics was truly exhaustive, but it didn't have enough new information to hold my attention for long.
The man who assassinated US president James Garfield carried out his deed in the vain hope of saving the soul of his sister who had committed suicide earlier that year.
Cicero's orations are exhaustive but the reason why we know anything about the man is because of his letters, which provide a much more revealing portrait of the man.
Her book on the history of centralised governments is an exhaustive study on the development of major states in the last two millennia.
The study of the human body in the ancient world was exhaustive; on cadavers, surgeons used to practice their techniques extensively.
Their efforts to unite the country under one permanent ruler were exhaustive, however, eventually led to the unification of China under the Qin Dynasty.
The Wari Empire's expansion came to an abrupt halt, not because of any conscience decision by the government, but due to its sheer size and the need for an exhaustive system of controlling their domain.
The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is a multitude of volumes containing over two thousand pages in its most exhaustive edition, written by Scottish historian and novelist Edward Gibbon.
He made an exhaustive study of the ancient texts and archaeological evidence in order to rediscover the truth about Jesus.
The process of whittling down the number of candidates through an exhaustive series of standardized tests also ensures that the cream rises to the top.
His book "Exhaustive Study of French Sentences" documents the
A hundred years ago, African-American composer William Grant Still (1895-1978), a thorough researcher and extroadinary productivity, wrote an exhaustive twelve-volume set of compositions.
He treated the subject with the thoroughness and attention to detail which have always been the hallmark of his work, and is an exhaustive study of all the primary sources available.
The experiment needs to be repeated for the results to be more than an isolated success, but an exhaustive study of the topic.
The exhaustive work by Eusebius of Caesarea should be consulted for more information.
The professors paper on the causes of the French Revolution is an exhaustive 27 pages long including diagrams, distribution of Labour in France during the eighteenth century and a critique of Karl Marx's interpretation.
The vast Roman roads network was the result of many decades of construction, some begun by the Etruscans and then extensively developed particularly under the Republic, and built using the techniques of the time.
The surveyor's report gives an exhaustive list of the contents of your house, excluding neither junk nor valuables.
He may have been the most erudite man of his day, but his writings are too esoteric and exhaustive for the modern reader.
The sheer enormity of the crime was so great that I was dumbfounded and did not know what to do or say.
Bertrand Russel's writing on religion is extensive and exhaustive, as can be seen from the length of this index page.
He presents an exhaustive study on the formation of the U.S. Constitution.
As an exhaustive researcher, she was known to have read every single page of every book she used as a citation in her work.
The inclusion of these theories in this paper does not imply that they are exhaustive, but collectively they give a fairly comprehensive overview of popular opinion during the French Revolution.
The work was exhaustive, but poor; it would not be considered true scholarship by today's standards.
His book on St. Anthony of the Desert was an exhaustive study on his life and practices.
Exhaustive searches through various archives by the most prominent historical scholars of the time have uncovered several documents, which although old and damaged, help piece together a more accurate representation of the Roman's involvement in Brutus' assassination.
Admiral Horatio Nelson, the most celebrated and accomplished naval commander in British history, was killed during the Napoleonic Wars.
The idea of the "noble savage"
Nobody has ever undertaken such an "exhaustive"
The book is an exhaustive historical account of early Christianity.
The word exhaustive comes from the Latin ex meaning "out" and haustus meaning "drink".
The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is an exhaustive, introspective and objective study of the development of Christianity and its effects on Roman society.
I read an article that covered this subject in exhaustive detail, but I can't remember the exact name of it or the magazine that it was in.
The novel is an exhaustive study of the rebellious nature that every human possesses.
The book - Compendium of Chronicles - was an exhaustive compendium of first-hand reports, letters, facts and figures about the history of the Christian Church.
The team worked for over six years on this subject and produced what was at the time the most exhaustive study of English usage ever.
Exhaustive research is needed in order to settle the dispute about whether the Sphinx is over 5,000 years old.
The investigation was very detailed and involved the compiling of information from all over the country involving interviews, research in libraries and archives, and a lot of legwork.
I had no qualms about failing spectacularly, because I knew that I had done the best that I could.
They gave an exhaustive list of requirements for what the new company car would have, yet they didn't include air-conditioning.
No statement in Jane Eyre is more exhaustive of Bronte's worldview than the oft-quoted paragraph on page 87 in which she describes true Christian charity.
After extensive research, Jane developed a theory to explain the mechanism of genetic inheritance.
He gave an exhaustive explanation of the causes of the conflict and showed how both sides were in the wrong to some extent.
A passage from one of the books I read during my time at the university covers this matter in what I found to be an exhaustive manner.
One of his most important works involving his theory of religion, "Church History", is an exhaustive study of the development of Christianity.
Her exhaustive study of Irish place names is still considered to be the most complete study of the topic.
Carole's speech covered all the major points of her argument was both clear and exhaustive.
It is an exhaustive report on the most recent scientific findings on near-death experiences.
After an extensive in-lab autopsy and an exhaustive search of the Internet, one expert determined the victim died from excessiveconcussion and cranial bleeding.
The sheriff would not be able to give an exhaustive list of the inmates that were released due to prison overcrowding without checking the records but there were more than a hundred for sure.
The tone of the essay was decidedly that of an admirer, and although he provided the reader with all the means to argue with him or her, it was obvious that his conclusions were exhaustive and had no more room for argument.
A list of the most prominent rulers of the Kingdom of Judah from before the Babylonian conquest of Jerusalem in 587 BCE until after the conquests by Alexander the Great in 332 BCE.
The organisers claim that the book will provide an exhaustive list of all the people who have visited.
The main sources for the history of ancient Rome are often both numerous and exhaustive.
Exhaustive research of the subject is necessary before coming to any conclusions.
After their extensive studies at the Royal Academy of Science, it has become clear to most graduates that the syllabus was too exhaustive for the available time.
The judges felt that there was not enough information in the files to make an accurate assessment, and as such the police files were no more or less exhaustive than those of any other major criminal.


#heterogeneous

A school class in India is a very heterogeneous collection of students. Each student has different interests, learns at a different speed and finds different topics interesting.
The common belief in the field was that the presence of physical barriers like rivers or mountain ranges were enough to create a population of different species, however we now recognize that in biology there are no true barriers and rarely does a new species evolve from a
The class was a heterogeneous assembly; it included a steward, a merchant, a landowner and his son, a middle-aged woman gleaning in the fields.
The United States is a heterogeneous society, with large numbers of people from different races, ethnicities and religions.
The United States has a population that is very diverse in many ways including language, culture and religion and is therefore considered a heterogeneous society.
The United States is a large nation composed of many different peoples and cultures.
Afterwards, they were forced to abandon the village and everything they had built because the island had become too heterogeneous and they couldn't find a consensus on how to run it.
The village had a very homogeneous feel to it - most of the inhabitants were similar in age, occupation and background, leading similar lives.
A school society dominated by students from the higher socioeconomic classes is likely to have a more homogeneous culture than one with a significant number of students from the lower socioeconomic classes.
However, a heterogeneous collection of German-speaking kingdoms does not a nation make.
The class itself was a heterogeneous group of people, some who appeared to be near the end of their academic careers and some who appeared to be just starting out.
The class was a heterogeneous collection of people.
In its original sense, it refers to a type of community made up of people from different places or having different origins.
The government has pledged to compensate these old clients by buying their policies, but it is questionable whether the payments to the banks will remain steady over time, especially with a growing population of elderly and more heterogeneous expectations of policymakers.
The coexistence of a wide range of different races, ethnic groups, religions and nationalities in an area creates a heterogeneous society.
The firm is heterogeneous and has offices in several countries.
With its stunningly beautiful countryside and rich array of wildlife and plant life, Kenya is a truly heterogeneous nation.
The class was a heterogeneous group of students, with various interests and majors.
The class was a bunch of college students from very different backgrounds, with different values, and different aspirations.
A diverse population in both age and size, it is also a heterogeneous society in which people of different races as well as religions coexist.
In classrooms across the country, children of different socioeconomic backgrounds are learning a heterogeneous variety of subjects.
The general consensus of the population of the time was largely homogeneous, and the political system and religion were primarily organized to suit the upper class.
I think she's trying to create a solidified egalitarian society. In other words, what you have is a population that's heterogeneous not only in terms of socioeconomic status but also in ideas.
The workers in Plaza del Sol are of several different ethnic groups and are all highly heterogeneous.
The word 'heterogeneous' means 'consisting of different elements' and is usually used to refer to a group or collection of people that differ from each other.
While the term "government" originally referred to the administration of a city state in ancient Greece, it has evolved to denoteHomogenous mixture of people or things.
The Theological University of Alexandria was a heterogeneous collection of students and teachers from various walks of life.
The U.S. boasts a large population of immigrants, and as a result, American culture is more heterogeneous than that of any other country.
SBC's employee base is a very heterogeneous mix of racial and religious backgrounds.
While Australia is known for its natural beauties, the fauna and flora in it consist not just of plants and animals native to Australia, but also a large population of species which arrived from other countries, known as invasive, non-indigenous
The European Union is comprised of twenty-eight member states, located primarily in Europe, but stretching from Northern Africa to the Balkans to the Caribbean.
The class is full of students with a wide range of ages, abilities and even socioeconomic backgrounds.
The class was a heterogeneous group of students with wildly different backgrounds and experiences.
The European Union's parliamentary body, the European Parliament, is a broad church embracing legislators from twenty-eight independent heterogeneous nations.
The population of the town was very heterogeneous, with people of many different nationalities living in it.
The city was a heterogeneous collection of tents that followed the terrain.
The city of Seoul is a heterogeneous mixture of modern skyscrapers, and old traditional tiled roof buildings.
A healthy democracy depends on the right of the people to choose their representatives, and by doing so, making laws that are suitable for the heterogeneous society of modern Britain
The population of the city is very heterogeneous; it is home to people from almost every nation on Earth.
The Japanese, in pursuit of self-preservation, have created a heterogeneous society and culture
The Roman Empire, which occupied Western Europe, was very different from the Persian Empire which occupied Eastern Europe.
The first settlers in Australia were not a homogenous group with respect to religion or social-economic status.
A class with a diverse mix of gender, age and racial make up, all contending and learning from one another.
The early Christian church was a community with people from a wide variety of social classes and ethnic backgrounds.
The United States, for example, is a collection of multiple, internally different states with different interests, whereas the Soviet Union was homogenous, a single country made up of many other controlled countries lacking any true internal diversity.
The class was made up of students with a wide variety of majors and minors, from engineering and biology to theater and aerospace.
A diverse population of 18th-century colonial Americans represented a wide range of regional, cultural, ethnic, and racial backgrounds.
It is remarkable that such a small city such as Prague could give birth to four kings of such different and heterogeneous personalities.
The great thing about the American county is that it consists of people from all walks of life and of every race, religion and social class.
The student population is extremely heterogeneous and comes from all parts of the world.
A diverse population of people from a range of different backgrounds, races, cultures or ethnicities.
Because I went to a public school, I became very accustomed to interacting with people from all over the world and with diverse backgrounds, which made me comfortable with being in a setting that was more heterogeneous.
The reality of the situation, however, is that a complex of buildings housing over 100,000 inhabitants can never be homogeneous.
The people living on the Islands of Malta, Cyprus and Crete are heterogeneous in origin, religion and culture.
The empire was a heterogeneous collection of different tribes and cultures that were brought together under one religion.
The jungle was a heterogeneous mixture of plants and animals.
Light is made up of several different wavelengths (or frequencies), and these appear to the human eye as colours. Sunlight has a broad spectrum of colours, which appears to be uniform to us because our eyes cannot discern the different wavelengths separately.
A prominent Christian and a foremost Biblical scholar of his era, Eusebius was instrumental in shaping the development of early Christianity. The British Empire at its zenith was a heterogeneous grouping of peoples spanning every corner of the world.
The workforce in the US is extremely heterogeneous, with most employees being adult females between the ages of 25 and 55.
A collection of different things; a heterogeneous group of people, plants and buildings are all situated in the village.
The population of the settlement was heterogeneous, with a huge mix of races and cultures.
A diverse crowd of people, the park was a melting pot of social classes, ethnic groups and races.
The perception that the incoming students have of the teaching methods of a university is said to be more heterogeneous than it actually is.
The class was a decidedly heterogeneous group.
The public education system in America used to be one of the most heterogeneous in the world.
The population of the island is far more heterogeneous than most islands. It enjoys great ethnic diversity that adds much to the richness of the culture.
After the American Civil War, plantations in the southern United States were restructured to employ free labor and became more heterogeneous.
Relatively few species were capable of surviving under such a wide variety of different conditions, and so the oceanic islands have become refuges for a large number of endemic species which possess unusual traits.
The European people are by nature not a homogeneous society, but one that is diverse and inclusive of many different races, creeds, ideals and religions.
During the Neolithic era, the establishment of farming communities allowed for greater population densities and the rise of heterogeneity amongst different members of tribes and villages.
The university's student population is rather heterogeneous, with students from all across Europe.
During the French Revolution, the bourgeoisie was comprised of people of extremely varying political views.
The German people are notoriously resistant to dictatorship and have, over the course of their history, developed a strong sense of heterogeneous social order.
In the American legal system, all of the judges are chosen from among veteran lawyers who have made their careers in the private sector. This guarantees a heterogeneity of experience and thought in the judiciary.
Taking into account the numbers involved, the proportion of men and women, the age of the people and other differences, it becomes clear that the population of Athens was extremely heterogeneous.
The classes at the university are very heterogeneous.
As the city is located in a region with heavy traffic from other countries, the locals are accustomed to foreigners and as such the city has a relatively heterogeneous population.
The United Nations is an organisation that brings together a large number of different countries or "nations" from all over the world for the purpose of maintaining peace.
The class comprised children of all ages and abilities.
The history department is the only department that has a heterogeneous faculty, with professors from all parts of the world.
The Gold Coast is an area in which various different ethnic groups native to the continent of Africa reside.
Due to the islands' relatively recent geological formation and their location on major trade routes, the islands' native flora and fauna rapidly became homogeneous.
The grouping of students from different postcodes, socioeconomic backgrounds and academic abilities in a class is called heterogeneous grouping.
A common problem with the structure of the Catholic Church is the fact that it is a very heterogeneous organisation.
The class contained a few students from different countries, but for the most part it was fairly homogeneous.
The United Nations has become a forum for the representatives of heterogeneous state to negotiate.
I enjoy the mix of students at our college. We have a very diverse student body, with students from all over the world.
The class is a heterogeneous group of majors with a variety of academic goals and career aspirations.
The Roman Empire was multi-ethnic and therefore had no proper racial identity, it was rather a melting pot of different cultures, religions and ideologies.
Despite its largely Christian population, Europe was a hotchpotch of languages and peoples who often didn't get on with each other.
The class was a heterogeneous group of people of different ages, genders and races.
He is also remembered for his efforts to introduce children to hockey, which has become a popular sport in many countries, and is now a prominent part of Canadian culture and modern Russian identity.
The study of law has never been a lucrative career path, and hence has attracted most by those needed to pursue it to support themselves, such as clerks, who are by nature Heterogeneous group.
The crowd was a heterogeneous mix of blue-collar workers and suburban housewives.
Although the Dutch and British East India Company's ships were to a certain extent the same in that they were both privately owned businesses that pursued trade with Asia, they were also different in many ways.
The students at the University of Warsaw are a witnesses to and participants in a wide array of different social, economic and political systems represented by students from all over the world.
The Northern states in the US, which were more developed, industrialized and urbanized, had different economic interests than the Southern states, which were less developed and primarily agricultural.
During the course, we study the concept of 'heterogeneous' labour, where labour power is broken down into smaller components to be exploited to its fullest potential by capital.


#inconsequential

His other works include an inconsequential book about clouds, which was very popular among Arab philosophers.
The discovery of the planet was itself inconsequential, as it has an atmosphere primarily composed of carbon dioxide and its diameter is only a quarter of that of earth's.
Fishing is an important part of the economy of many coastal towns, but it is considered to be quite an inconsequential activity.
However, for him the ability to chat with his buddies online was of such immense importance that he was ready to sacrifice anything for it and as a result the issue of misuse of the school's computers was reduced to inconsequential levels.
The scholar had a reputation for correcting people on what he saw as minor and inconsequential mistakes.
Three of the following phrases are related to the French king mentioned in the lecture, one is not.
However, the battle itself was of little significance, as it was quite inconsequential to the outcome of the war.
Yet at the same time, in societies where the price of bread is heavily regulated by the government, any small increase results in public outcry as the populace feels the pinch of even this inconsequential increase.
His petty criminal record was almost inconsequential when compared to his brilliance as a medical researcher.
The temporary closing of the international ports was an inconsequential event that had no major lasting effects on society or the economy.
When he first submitted his paper reporting Uranus's orbital inconsistencies, he downplayed the importance of his findings so as to not be seen as the discoverer of yet another inconsequential planet.
Group A used biological warfare agents that were considered inconsequential.
But while on the run he wrote several of his most acclaimed poems. While many critics assess them as technically flawed, they have a certain raw energy that makes them unique and attractive to the modern reader.
Nevertheless, the war was of little consequence in the grand scheme of things. It was just one of many conflicts between the Kingdom of England and Kingdom of Scotland, both of which had been under the rule of King James for almost 20 years.
The main reason for this success is partly due to the continued profitability of their product but also because it has a lot of brand loyalty.
Significant in the consolidation of Norse power in Britain, the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle also records countless attacks on sections of the coastline which are regarded by historians as inconsequential.
It was just a minor inconsequential error in the large scheme of things.
The legal ruling had no real effect in practice; the building of yet another nuclear power station was always going to be a formality.
His decision to invade France, a country that was slow to revolt, was an inconsequential act of aggression.
The loss of the Stirling bomber prototypes was an inconsequential setback in the preparations for the impending war.
Professor: It was not really fair on the other students that you should have been marked so highly just because the instructors were impressed by you and your work, regardless of how good or bad it was.
Chocolate contains over 3000 chemicals and the role of most of these chemicals is unknown. However, the amount of theobromine and caffeine is usually higher than in other foods.
The struggles of the peasants were considered inconsequential by both the Nobles and the Church who saw them as ignorant and worthless.
Life under the Borgias was unpleasant, bloodthirsty and inconsequential
By the standards of the Franco-Prussian War, the Spanish conflict was of some importance but in the scheme of things was relatively inconsequential.
The minor geological changes that led to the formation of Inconsequential Plain are barely recorded.
Your grades have been a little low, but they are inconsequential to your future prospects.
The recent elections were overshadowed by accusations of vote rigging and the result was an inconclusive one with large numbers of blank and invalid votes.
The class is dismissed.
Of course, the late Ptolemaic rulers had their own library in their consequtive efforts to remain 'inconsequential' and 'superfluous'.
"Well, you've had illness, a couple of accidents that have left you with a permanent limp, but other than that, nothing of too much importance."
Constantinople was an inconsequential town at the time of its founding.
The following day an inconsequential island off the Congolese coast was annexed to amplify French holdings in Africa.
The battle was very ferocious and at the end there were thousands of casualties, most of them being soldiers.
The rise of social networking has led to an increase in online bullying, but the problem has been dealt with by most websites through their terms and conditions, ignoring the problem is not treating it seriously enough.
The internet has made the movements of terrorists less consequential as they can communicate and organise easily online, bringing new challenges to intelligence and law enforcement communities tracking them.
It was a fantasy.
However, to the cyborgs, the temporary loss of a few probes was an inconsequential matter.
The endless disputes between minor German states, which seemed so important at the time, proved to be completely inconsequential in the long run.
His focus on small details may have proved an inconvenience to him as he was looking for any sort of support at all.
"Well you needn't fly into a rage over such an inconsequential thing."
While the actions of those involved were certainly morally wrong, many believed that it was an entirely inconsequential issue when compared to more serious crimes like robbery or assault.
The rebellious angels were driven out of Heaven and allowed to roam Earth, but their influence on mankind was mostly inconsequential.
He said that the scandal, although attracting lots of media attention, was ultimately an inconsequential one.
Despite her physical beauty, her intelligence and her position at the royal court, Elizabeth was an inconsequential queen.
The argument over whether the Danish cartoons were offensive is of little consequence and really doesn't matter in the scheme of things.
At the time Churchill believed that the Suez Crisis was of little international importance, but in retrospect, its breaking of both international law and national sovereignty of Egypt seems far more consequential.
The misquoted passage was in reality inconsequential to his overall message.
Nevertheless, The Arian belief stating that Christ was a created being remained and continued to be popular amongst Gothic tribes until the 6th-century Christian conversion of the Gothic kings Theoderic and Clovis I.
Despite being of Indian heritage, Satya is an outspoken supporter of the Freelander cause and feels that his fellow Native Americans are inconsequential in the greater scheme of things.
The decision to pursue a career in engineering may seem inconsequential now, but at the time it was made, it was paramount to your future endeavors.
However, during the same era the Romans founded Londonium, they also instituted a number of infrastructure projects with long-lasting effects; most importantly, roads.
Although a British citizen at the time, Wilberforce's speech arguing against slavery was met with little interest from the public, which at the time saw it as an inconsequential issue of little importance.
The maintenance of the English monarchy during the seventeenth century was, in many ways, an inconsequential matter to the average subject.
The answer is "That in his later years he had no sense of smell but this fact is rather inconsequential in retrospect given his other achievements".
Many of the citizens were angry about his inconsequential rebellions and disregard for the law.
Although of interest to historians, these events seem
Professor: I would prefer not to answer. Questions about my personal life are rather inconsequential compared to my achievements as a doctor, don't you think?
The general strike was largely seen as an inconsequential action by the unions given that it had little impact on the country and was averted shortly after it began.
The destruction of the city of Carthage in 146 BCE was inconsequential in the grand scheme of Roman politics as it concerned the rest of their growing empire.
Inconsequential in an intellectual discussion on an important topic.
Please note that you have already received 4 bonus points for the "Struggle For Existence" achievement.
The loss of the 'Grand Alliance' was considered an inconsequential loss in the midst of such a great victory.
Many believe that the protests were inconsequential as they did not influence the final decision to media sources.
His remark was politically innocuous and, therefore, in a way, somewhat inconsequential.
As the new king, his most popular act was conquering the neighboring region, which was inconsequential to state security.
Professor:In his later years he grew increasingly deranged, suffering from hallucinations and delusions of grandeur; his last words were reported to be a reference to killing Julius Caesar.
The argument over whether we should eat pasta or rice is quite inconsequential.
While these groups squabbled among themselves the British approached the whole matter in an objective, pragmatic fashion and achieved their political objectives the quickest; they wanted the French out and they did so with the help of other, more inconsequential colonists.
The soldiers faced with shelling will suffer deaths no different from the ones on the front-line of a park bench, and in both cases these are inconsequential to a government's war aims.
Quince The most influential of these events were the invention of moveable type and the printing press by Johannes Gutenberg.
"The Hall of the Giant Kings, as it is called, contains the graves and funerary remains of early England's rulers and, more importantly, of great warriors."
The general public, or rather the male members of it, who are of course the only ones allowed to take part in the political process, as women's opinions count for nothing...
The fact that a country has a large mining industry and exports a lot of raw materials and fossil fuels is generally considered to be somewhat inconsequential when it comes to industrialization and the development of a first-world economy.
The newest report of the American government talks about the
The fact that the opening of a new bakery in a struggling neighbourhood was considered an important news item says more about the financial state of the newspaper industry than it does about any real effect that the bakery would have on the neighbourhood.
While the war saw countries fighting for their lives, ideologies and ways of life, many of these were ultimately inconsequential to its outcome.
The book listed the names of all the members of the Communist party, an utterly inconsequential organisation in the scheme of things.
They may be small at the moment, but their lobbying power is increasing and our politicians are eager to listen to them, their opinions will soon be inconsequential.
The war itself is considered to be one of the greatest tragedies in human history, but for the residents of the city where it formulated it was in inconsequential.
The book was harmless enough in itself, but it represented an idea that might spread and bring about undesirable consequences in the future.
The entrance of the hut was an old curtain, torn and faded, and it had been placed there as an entrance in an inconsequential corner.
I think the central character in the play is of less importance than the minor characters, all of whom are quite interesting; the playwright appears to have been very ingenious in his choice of ancillary people in this play.


#mundane

Having grown up with a single mother who was a struggling artist in New York City, he has chosen to pursue a career in finance, and therefore is moving to New York when he graduates.
She considers parenting and housework to be boring and mundane, and doesn't understand why men don't share in these duties.
Little is known about the personal life of Franklin Roosevelt; he was a very private man, and kept his marriage to his beloved wife Eleanor, and his mistress Lucy Page Mercer Reynolds secret from the American public opinion.
In the early 19th century, industrialization was beginning to spread to the most rural areas of England, and agriculture was becoming increasingly mechanized and mundane.
The paperweight is a clear sphere containing several smaller orbs of different colours.
Your classes at university quickly teach you that the everyday life of the average person in ancient times was full of tedious, repetitive manual labor.
The greatest ruler of the Hellenistic era, Alexander the Great is remembered primarily for his military achievements and also for spreading Greek culture throughout the region.
The study of the stars was, at least in Western culture, considered more prestigious than the study of the Earth itself.
The life of a wizard is anything but mundane.
Although you might think that the theories of quantum physicists are mundane and commonplace, physicists have won Nobel prizes for their work on the subject.
However, it was clear that the minds of this select group of individuals were anything but mundane.
He regarded his own choice as a rabbi to devote his life to teaching the Torah and preaching as the most mundane way of life possible.
While centralised and orderly, the Incan Empire possessed a degree of brutality unknown to the Romans. Many sacrifices and rituals were carried out involving the death of one person or many.
Antioch was a small, influential city in Syria; although it was a long way from the centre of the empire, its citizens still managed to cause mayhem in the capital through their frequent revolutions.
Constant intellectual stimulation may have been lacking, but the tasks they were required to perform were relatively straightforward and mundane.
The focus of their teaching was on Church doctrine, prayer and adhering to a moral and dutiful life, and they considered their teachings to be a return to the original ways of the faith, free of ecclesiastical corruption and secular or
However, not all Christians regarded the physical world and material accomplishments as unimp
The life of a hairdresser is a mundane existence, where the focus everyday is on someone else's appearance rather than your own.
Driving in heavy traffic to work is her idea of a mundane Monday through Friday routine.
Ojigi, the word for boarding school in the Igbo language, is a word with extremely negative connotations.
People have often thought of medieval kings as living lavishly decorated lives concerned with more mundane matters such as raising taxes.
They are mundane objects, the kind that you might see in a history textbook or a television show.
I'm sure many of us here at Scripps had aspirations of becoming astronauts or rock stars when we were young, but as we grew older we recognized that we didn't have the talent for these jobs.
The day-to-day business of the Holy Roman Empire was handled by its government, which was a vast bureaucratic machine that kept itself busy with paperwork and protocol.
Following the theft of a handgun and ammunition from a United States Army pistol range, an order was given to retrieve all remaining ammunition.
In 1691, William III of England embarked upon a routine journey to London from his home in the Netherlands. On the way, he was suddenly struck by an assailant with a firearm.
However, he also had a deep love for the more mundane things in life such as eating and sleeping.
The leisure afforded in the relatively free and burgeoning city states enabled specialization of labor and the evolution of the theological system, but it also brought the problem of how to fill one's newfound time.
While the search for knowledge of the world was an admirable pursuit, Galileo was beginning to find it mundane.
Most of my friends think studying languages is mundane, but I love it!
Although vital to many, the work of the interior decorator and the florist remained on the whole mundane and unglamorous.
In addition to being a superior military commander, Napoleon was also a very gifted diplomat.
When he walked away from his office without looking back it was as if he were walking away from an unsatisfying job, not a relationship that he had invested so much in.
Victorian morality has been criticised as too prudish and repressive of sexuality.
The rise of Hitler and the Nazi party in Germany in the 20th century led to the most destructive war in human history; human civilization was almost brought to a end by nuclear weapons, leading to a new Dark Age.
Although now
As a young man in the late 1880's, Freud wanted to be a famous medical doctor and live a mundane life.
The place was apparently a centre for trade and merchant activity, with a lot of mundane shops, but also baths, temples and other service buildings.
GK Chesterton was a Christian because, in his own words, "Christianity is the only religion befitting of an immortal creature.
It is difficult in this day and age to imagine a world without these technologies.
"With its focus on the natural and everyday, the mundane and the ordinary, it could be said that photography is the dominant visual art form of the nineteenth century.
However, in accordance with the widespread belief of the day, which considered there to be an equivalence between outer appearances and inner qualities, the noblewomen represented the ideal type of their gender.
The study of Latin has been separated into two categories, the realistic and the mundane.
Predictably predictably, the mundane repetition of the grassy fields caused Darcy to fall asleep.
Domestically, he focused on implementing programs to improve life for the average Roman citizen, as opposed to the extraordinary efforts he placed into his war campaigns and expansionism.
The people in our village lead mundane lives, far removed from the intrigues of the royal court.
The now mundane process of printing was a cutting-edge technological innovation in the fifteenth century.
Some participants have suggested the phenomenon is mundane and explainable by science. However, other participants believe it to be a genuine and ongoing occurrence.
And whenever a terrorist attack or other violent crime occurs, they're taken away from their normal jobs of maintaining order to pursue those attackers and murderers, leaving the regular, everyday, mundane work undone
For most people, their contact with government is in the form of mundane everyday activities such as driving and income tax.
In his later years, Martin Luther became increasingly paranoid and disillusioned by the state of the world; he even told his students that it was inhabited by "devils in the flesh".
While running his shop, Newton pursued his other great love, the study of mathematics and physics. While much of this work was groundbreaking, it was considered rather mundane by his contemporaries.
An employee and most of her workmates found their mundane office jobs extremely tedious and they couldn't wait for the day to end.
While the achievements of our species have been extraordinary, I believe that we must maintain a connection to the natural world and not become too enamored with our own importance and place in the universe.
Although acts of armed robbery are certainly exciting and headline-worthy, they are in reality very mundane , and more often than not, easy to prevent and apprehend.
I find the life of a white-collar worker incredibly mundane, especially since I don't have to do much thinking during the work-day.
William Graham Sumner believed that the accumulation of knowledge and technology was in itself a positive contribution to society, and that the 'mundane' tasks of everyday life were just as important as the tasks oriented towards innovation.
He did not want to be a doctor and instead desired a career in the navy, a choice he thought much more exciting and mundane.
The headquarters of the People's Army is the City of Tombs, a sprawling metropolis filled with ten million people.
We are also experiencing an increasingly mundane existence in our day-to-day lives.
The most mundane tasks are often the ones that take the greatest degree of persistence and determination.
Making the single bed you sleep in every night seems rather mundane when compared to the achievements of the Wright Brothers' and Christopher Columbus.
Harold is a lackluster student who spends most of his time studying the most mundane facts of subjects that most find stimulating.
Boring and irrelevant, their lives are spent in the daily grind, working at their job and then coming home to spend time with family.
My job involves teaching, mentoring and keeping track of dozens of students' progress, and doesn't lend itself to let me do what I find most enjoyable, which is research.
His focus is on the most mundane, everyday objects and transforming them into works of art.
A lot of teenagers find the daily routine of going to school or university and working in a boring office as being mundane, but most adults look back on such period with appreciation.
Some men dream of heroic deeds on battlefields, or of performing great feats of magic, or of searching for long-lost treasure. Your own dreams are somewhat more mundane.
They initially believed that their religious ceremonies and practices would help keep at bay the ever-present specter of death.
Fortunately, a number of popular writers have adopted the style making it less mundane and more appealing to the masses.
The new employee handbook contains some very useful information on rules and regulations in the company.
Life within the muncipal borders of the city had become mundane, and Victor longed for excitement.
The Cataclysm struck suddenly and unexpectedly. It was a time of great excitement for the world had finally achieved something that many thought unachievable: contact with an alien species.
On the other hand, Oliver truly believed in the concept of magic and the supernatural, regarding them both with awe and fascination; he didn't do it for the money or out of a sense of duty, but out of a desire to experience the
Although he's working on curing the common cold, the day-to-day process of lab work in not what he finds most fulfilling.
The system humanity is subject to is in many ways mundane and predictable.
Diogenes believed that most aspects of life were unnecessary and filling our lives with such things leads to a loss of happiness and virtue.
She feared the mundane world and its failure to provide her with lasting joy.
Ordinary people's addiction to gambling ensured that they would gamble, no matter what the government's stance on it was. It was and still is an activity that only the very poor or very rich can indulge in, and even then only occasionally.
The novels of Jane Austen are focused on everyday and mundane occurrences in the lives of middle-class English people.
Life in the United Kingdom wasn't all exciting. There were many mundane things that you had to do on a daily or weekly basis.
I think the most mundane part of my job is filling out all the university forms.
The whole class was so mundane that it gave you a bit of a headache.
His job was one of processing new patients, taking x-rays and other menial tasks such as filling out insurance forms.
The course we are about to embark upon is threefold; the first section is dedicated to those with a scientific approach to history, the second section contains more mundane information necessary for all students and the third section is reserved for personal study notes.
However, he found that the idea of naval warfare was becoming mundane and preferred to pursue a career as a professional writer.
As a child, his vision of being ordinary and mundane worried him greatly.
Despite specializing in IT security, Alan and his girlfriend's lack of interest in mundane everyday matters such as housework and bill payments meant that they soon fell behind on their utility and tax payments.
However, the values of property and the mundane concerns of making a living moderate the freedom that one can have.
Furthermore, in the medieval worldview which had been shaped by religious thought, worldly activity was seen as being of less importance than spiritual activity.
His novels are an interesting combination of the intensely-realistic and the fantastic, focusing on themes of love, loss, and death but described in a style focused on the mundane and placid.
However, in 2005, he was sentenced to house arrest for killing one of his former students after claiming that he had been attacked by an "evil, supernatural force"
The life of a minion is an uneventful one, breaking the routine only when your master requests your service.
One might imagine that when humans first walked on the moon, step by giant leap they would continue to explore and push out the limitations of the world and universe around them.
Citizens of the Roman Empire could fill their leisure time with entertainment that today we would consider mundane, such as watching gladiator battles or racing animals.


#obvious

There is a huge gap between the rich...and the poor...which seems to be becoming more and more obvious as the years go on.
It is obvious that whoever committed the crime had a key to the room or was a locksmith.
The Edict of Milan, which was issued in 311 A.D and legalised Christianity as a religion, is an example of a historical event which seems to be obvious when looking back at it but was anything but at the time.
The Glorious Revolution was obviously important in English history because it put an end to the idea that a Catholic could not ascend to the throne, without putting England under foreign rule.
The fact that the University has a woman and a minority as president is certainly unusual, but hardly obvious.
It is obvious that in order to address the problem of technological unemployment we need to invest in new energy technologies.
It's obvious that he is lying about his reasons for leaving the company; he claims he was fired, but those who worked under him claim that he simply left one day never to return.
The answer which has ‘obvious' written all over it is ‘blue'
The fact that the forgery is so different to his other work made it obvious to scholars that it couldn't have been by him.
"The value of his discoveries in the fields of anatomy, biology and other scientific disciplines are obvious to any student of science."
Professor: A woman walking alone on a dark street at two in the morning is obviously making herself an easy target of a potential violent criminal.
History consists of a series of events, developments and changes that occurred in the past.
My cat playing on the computer is obvious to anyone who sees her.
A lack of meaningful jobs and social status made being a mugger or burglar, like the notorious 'Springfield Slasher', the only obvious career choice for many young men in the city.
The theory of plate tectonics is based upon a few simple facts and the movement of the continents is unmistakable; it is therefore not a theory open to much doubt or ambiguousness.
From these early observations, the atmospheric theory of heat developed.
The fact that the bishop was obviously an important and rich man is clear from the clothing, which you are handling.
However, this 'obvious' solution seems to have been overlooked by the State governments of the time.
The fact that the electric light was a recent invention and the piano and drum were the only instruments being used were all obvious clues.
The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 marked the end of the Cold War and the official end of the ‘Communist Threat'.
The rise in the importance of the middle classes during the industrial revolution is not an obvious consequence of the industrialization process.
It is only recently that scientists have started to acknowledge the social and emotional lives of other animals, and their capacity for suffering.
There are currently over 7 billion people in the world, and this number is increasing rapidly.
The sacking of the city of York by the Vikings was an obvious turning point in the Viking Age.
The fact that the school has introduced a strict dress code for teachers is obviously an attempt to prevent people from assuming that they are in any way connected with the arts and humanities.
The fact that the candidate ignored the question and went on to elaborate on his previous answer instead of addressing new developments in the question shows that he either does not have a grasp on the subject or is just being obvious about his lack of preparation.
The formation of the state bank was not an obvious success.
The fact that the Earth has one moon, which is much smaller than the planet it circles, is an obvious correspondence to how a king has many subordinates, who are much less important than he is.
It is obvious that the students are tired and don't want to write any more essays!
It is obvious that she will not finish her assignment on time.
To the modern observer, it is obvious that the ancient Greeks believed in a spherical Earth.
His success was obvious; he became wealthy and powerful in the community.
While the dot-com boom of the late 1990s seemed obvious to most people, many failed to make money from it, as it was a period of frenzied speculation.
His argument that critics of the government were motivated by their desire to discolour its image and obvious political ends was unconvincing.
The amount of time he spends watching reality t.v shows is obvious from the banality of the sentences he produces.
The state of the German economy was very poor, with high levels of unemployment, during the interwar period. The rise of the Nazis to power in 1933 was therefore very obvious.
Her speech was full of obvious truisms and platitudes.
The obvious mark of a fossil is that it's obviously old, and the internal structure is no longer intact.
To the modern reader, the language in these letters is often obvious and repetitive, filled with clichés and rhetorical questions.
It was obvious that the directors were going to select her proposal, which would win them favour in the prime minister's eyes, regardless of its quality.
During the 19th-century American settlers in search of land and gold would criticize the Mexican government for being inefficient and corrupt; its policies were obviously out of touch with the expectations of the people.
The fact that the so-called 'Hand of God' is lightning is obvious in retrospect.
His obvious fear disturbs you, as you know
She always went to great lengths to make sure her speech was free of jargon and obvious indications of her profession.
It's obvious that you didn't read the chapter. That question was worth 6% of your grade, and you just wasted it.
The government's willingness to introduce a new gambling bill, obviously an attempt to raise more revenue, i
However, criminal trials were much more efficient at the time, so it is obvious that they took precedent.
However, criminal trials were much more efficient at the time, so it is obvious that they took precedent.
The court forced the man to testify about his involvement with the suspected crime.
The court forced the man to testify about his involvement with the suspected crime.
The court forced the man to testify about his involvement with the suspected crime.
The court forced the man to testify about his involvement with the suspected crime.
The problem here is that the government is treating a minor problem as if it were an obvious major threat.
and opened up trade with Asia, Africa and South America.
This game has attracted heavy criticism due to its in-game advertising.
