

#furthermore

Moreover, planting forests involves considerable expense and trouble.
Furthermore, the ability to write down words encouraged the development of literature and eventually allowed for the keeping of records and storing of information.
Furthermore, a new element was introduced when the British colonized New Zealand in the early 1800s.
Moreover, there are parts of the theory that will be difficult to test, such as those concerning the origin of life.
Furthermore, the French republic constantly had to address the issue of what to do with the ex-rulers.
Furthermore, while some in the media say these changes are enough, others are already beginning to say they do not go far enough.
But intellectual as the academics of ancient Alexandria were, they were not immune from the confusions of their age.
By the mid-seventeenth century, colonization also led to the formation of more powerful, centralized governments.
Even if this is the case, there are still furthermore arguments in favor of the benefits of some sort of government assistance.
Furthermore, the use of carrier pigeons meant that many conventional communication methods such as letters and newspapers were bypassed.
The original inhabitants of the region traded with the colonists, and during the 19th century many of them took jobs in the mines and garment factories. Furthermore, they were not brutalized by their colonial masters.
Furthermore, the debate continues about whether or not animals have consciousness.
Furthermore, many other nations are beginning to industrialize and catch up to Britain's level of technology.
Mr Collings also pointed out that in some areas, especially the North, rainfall has been falling and river levels have been falling, contributing to an increasing risk of drought. Furthermore, the warming may also increase evaporation and decrease precipitation.
Furthermore, the role of women in these same cultures was seen as only nominally different from that of men.
Furthermore, the addition of these sweeteners means that the diet drinks end up with exactly the same taste as the sugared drinks.
Furthermore, the latest archaeological evidence suggests that even common items such as pots and pans were mass-produced to help supply this growing market.
Furthermore, the building of cities and clearing of forests changed surrounding ecosystems drastically.
Furthermore, the attacks on the World Trade Center as well as the bombing of public transportation highlight the lengths to which fanatics are willing to go to in order to terrorize others and destroy what they do not agree with.
Furthermore, it was the first time in decades that most people shared a common experience.
Also the commission found that the two farmers had been guilty of ignoring warnings to keep off the moors and had also disregarded a fencing notice.
Furthermore, we can assume that all the words that referred to common Native American ancestors have a common origin as well.
Another theory which seeks to explain these issues is that of natural selection.
Furthermore, the relationship between government and religion, when the Catholic church regained power in Italy, it did everything possible to prevent any activities that may lead to the enlightenment of the people.
Professor:Furthermore, the students are also encouraged to participate in the different clubs and extracurricular activities available at the school.
Furthermore, with the aid of telegraphs and other such inventions, news could be sent from one end of the country to another in a matter of days.
Furthermore, it is often easier for potential terrorists to apply for visas rather than sneak into the country.
For example, the amount of oxygen in a cell depends on the genes of that cell, and therefore varies from cell to cell. Furthermore, all cells contain the same amount of DNA.
The earliest modern humans lived at the same time as earlier human species, for example the Neanderthals in Europe and Homo erectus in Asia.
Furthermore, actions as simple as walking or breathing also cause vibrations in the air and the ground that can be detected and deciphered by properly configured computers.
Furthermore, anticolonialist leaders such as Gandhi and Nelson Mandela were canonized in the best-case scenario and reluctantly tolerated in the worst.
"Furthermore, it cannot be regarded as certain that all contemporary humans come from the same ancestor. "
Furthermore, you can try to find out what the most important inventions of the ancient world were.
Furthermore, it is likely that these new techniques will result in more children being born who will grow up to be gifted mathematicians, musicians or philosophers.
Furthermore, the policy of containment merely delayed the final outcome.
Furthermore, it is easier for Europeans to immigrate to the US than it was for Indians to cross the Atlantic.
Furthermore, the spread of global industrialization will create a worldwide economy and culture.
Furthermore, the production of bile increases when the body is stressed.
Furthermore, because combustion engines produce poisonous fumes and noxious noise, they were unacceptable in Victorian Britain.
The rise of public transportation created growing suburbs, which provided the workforce for factories. Furthermore, workers could spend more money at these factories, improving the economy.
At the heart of Paine's view on society was the idea that all human beings want to be free and are willing to work to achieve their goals.
Furthermore, it was a time of great intellectual awakening that challenged many of the ideas which had gone before it.
Furthermore, early humans were able to cross the land bridge into North America far earlier than believed.
Furthermore, colonial powers are still struggling to comprehend the fact that their relationships to their former colonies are now those between foreign nations rather than parent to child.
Furthermore, all the women had babies with teeth that were just as deformed.
Furthermore, the reasons used to justify war in the early twentieth century differed greatly from those used in earlier wars.
However, even if we do not accept that, it is clear that the importance of the slave trade to Europe can not be exaggerated. Furthermore, its condemnation must be clear.
Professor:Furthermore, the government would not have the funds to deal with the situation.
Professor: The Reformation was a 16th-century religious division within Western Christianity, furthermore the Protestants based their church of on people having a personal relationships with God and reading the Bible for themselves.
In addition to this factor, globalization has nowadays also led to an increase in the amount of communication that the media undertakes with the rest of the world.
However, this new evidence is still not enough to convince most anthropologists that the ability to speak was present in at least two earlier species of human. Furthermore, the ability to use language is only one of many traits unique to humans.
Furthermore, they were important in developing parliamentary democracy and in implementing universal suffrage.
The article also uses the term "furthermore" several times: "Furthermore, the geneticists showed that..."
Furthermore, the insistence on gathering and recording detailed information sometimes slowed down the Allied advance.
Furthermore, hunting large and dangerous animals for food is less necessary and dangerous now that there are grocery stores everywhere.
Furthermore, the changes brought about by the movement, such as the end to slavery and the improvement of women's rights, have been stereotyped as being movement toward "unidirectional liberal progress"
Furthermore, the moral issues in GATT's deliberations plus the lack of public attention made decision making difficult.
Banks and other financial institutions were too nervous to lend the money needed for American farmers to buy the land.
Furthermore, there were works of art that he had never seen before and knew nothing about.
The University of the Andes, in Mérida, was established in 1558, making it the oldest university on the American continent.
Furthermore, women in most parts of the world were denied the right to vote until the 20th century, and this was only granted because of intense public pressure.
Furthermore, the bodies of these warriors were scientifically tested and found to contain large quantities of stimulants,
Moreover, human beings had no need to "evolve" a talent for learning foreign languages.
Furthermore, doctors and patients have been put at risk by the decision, and will continue to do so until the situation is resolved.
Furthermore, it has drastically changed our understanding of medieval history.
Furthermore, primate behavior is among the least understood aspects of zoology.
Furthermore, since 1848 several other socialist organizations have split from the main branch, including the Fabian Society and the Communist Party.
Furthermore, we discovered several new brain functions, specifically related to the regulation of the sleep cycle.
Furthermore, the British in East Africa were fighting against the local inhabitants, the Boers of South Africa were looking to expand north and Italian immigrants were flooding into North America.
Furthermore, the French government tried to implement a new tax in New England.
Furthermore, he felt the collection and classification of such data would promote the unity of all educated men.
Furthermore, he also tried to extend his contract with Blaise for five more years.
At the same time, while their status is equal in criminal cases, women are under the legal guardianship of their husbands in Saudi Arabia.
Professor: Nonetheless the major media have barely mentioned the recent clear evidence that Alzheimer's disease is definitely caused by abnormalities within a certain protein, and can therefore probably be treated with drugs.
Furthermore, the southern tribes used to catch wild African elephants and train them.
Another movement was the spread of free market economics, as governments in the capitalist world were influenced by rising capitalist classes.
The scientific tests also have implications for forensic scientists, since blood is often the main way that murderers are caught.
Furthermore, they are extremely ambitious when it comes to achieving their goals.
Furthermore, the government has drastically cut funding for universal health care and education.
Furthermore, the defeat of Charles Edward Stuart's loyalists was a decisive event in the consolidation of Britain into a powerful nation.
Furthermore, most of the world's energy resources are found in areas that aren't suitable for habitation.
Moreover, the 20th-century role of the British monarch has been to perform ceremonial duties and to be a unifying figure in times of national celebration or crisis.
Furthermore, one of his underlings, a man named Hans Frank, wrote detailed accounts of the Nazis' plan to exterminate the Jews.
Furthermore, a report by the Royal College of Physicians claims alcohol is linked to more than 60 medical conditions.
Furthermore, a lot of celebrities' children turn out to be complete disasters.
The fall of the Berlin wall and the reunification of Germany not only led on to a greater concentration of wealth in the hands of a smaller group of people.
Furthermore, it is a common misconception that the Nazis perpetrated the Holocaust solely against the Jews.
Furthermore, it is highly unlikely that a small community of European Jews alone somehow brought about the collapse of vast Inca empire.
You: Professor we have heard several sentences now containing complex words, these are words we won't find in a standard dictionary.


#generalisation

Rabbits are mammals
The U.S. national debt is larger than the gross product of the U.S.'s entire economy, a situation that cannot possibly persist in the long term. Such a generalization is unfounded.
Make too wide a generalisation and you will end up with a meaningless, unwieldy theory that doesn't really explain anything,
The main problem with the generalisation that all human societies develop in a similar way is that exceptions to this rule can easily be found.
It was a habit of making generalisations that led to the Holocaust of the Jews.
In his chapter "The Racist Claims" in the book "", Kenan Malik refutes all of their generalisation and conclusions on racism.
It is difficult to make generalisations about a culture which it itself was trying to impose uniformity on its lands.
"You did well to generalize that the incidence of substance abuse is lower in countries that have effective welfare programmes," the professor says.
The generalisation that the United States military is capable of easily assimilating women into front line units is a superficially appealing one but nonetheless wrong.
It is very rare to find a generalisation in history that doesn't eventually get overturned.
The claim that all members of a certain group have the same characteristics is called a generalisation, stereotype, or prejudice.
The industrialisation of the North of England led to the South being regarded as a separate country with different rules, practices and values.
"Generalisation" is a broad word that could be used to mean many things.
While it is true that several of these factors are most discernible in the media, a generalisation like this is dangerous as it ignores the exceptions to the rule.
Generalizations, however, are often false.
Although a thousand years old, this alphabet could be used to write any language that used the
Feminists argue that generalisations about female indiscipline reinforce rather than challenge male power structures.
The primary difficulty with generalisation is that they tend to oversimplify complex processes.
The generalisation of new technology is generally first adopted by the wealthy.
The tendency to make sweeping statements based on insufficient evidence is called ‘over-generalisation'. For example, a person says ‘All lawyers are liars.
The English word 'genre' is an example of a generalisation.
Travellers often indulge in generalisations about a country and its people after visiting it for a few days.
One of the most commonly used generalisations in discussing this area of the syllabus is the consideration that "words and language contain meaning". Although, as you will see, this cannot possibly be a definition.
As with all generalisations, there are a number of exceptions to this one but it is a useful starting place when making plans for your retirement.
The tendency to make broad generalizations about people is called a "generalization"
The generalisations (sic) of the ancient thinkers about human nature were accepted by most philosophers until the time of the Enlightenment.
While the idea that all people can be classified according to a few general personality types was at first a useful intel
However, the difficulty in pinpointing any exact historical generalisation is apparent when considering the fate of these ancient civilisations and the differences between them.
Overcooking vegetables results in a loss of nutrients and thus it is better to err on the side of undercooking than overcooking.
Many of the early European settlers of Australia in the late 18th and 19th centuries were penal colonists; England shipped them there to serve sentences rather than sending them to another country.
Generalizations, as we all know, tend to be wrong.
A typical example of generalisation is seen in his idea that, "American society has developed a special genetic structure that cannot be found anywhere else in the world."
"(A generalization is a statement which claims to apply to all elements of a group.)"
The second weakness in the argument is an over-generalisation of the facts to prove the case; there are clear exceptions to many of his points.
The theory has had a lot of criticism, most of it directed toward its broad generalizations that do not accurately reflect the complexities of the societies involved.
The main criticism of the general theory of relativity is that it does not take into account the possibility of singularities.
It should have come as no surprise that female serial killers very rarely commit their crimes for personal gain or their own pleasure, as is the case with most male serial killers.
The games include tactical, strategic and generalisations.
The process of industrialisation was not a uniform one but occurred at different times in different places in the world.
Jane Austen's novels are a generalisation of English life in the first half of the nineteenth century.Her characters all express the basic values and social structure of that time.
A widely accepted generalisation about the English is their admiration of dignity.
The generalisation from specific cases or instances; the extraction of a general principle or truth.
To broadly generalize, religions are systems of understanding our place in the world.
They need to make a generalization based on how their understanding of an educated guess, but in many cases this is almost impossible to do.
The 16th century gave birth to modern science, with ideas such as the laws of physics and the scientific method being used for the first time.
Unconscious generalization is a common lapse in reasoning.
The flood of 9,000 years ago was a generalisation that did not happen as the snow-capped mountains were not iced-over.
With today's technology, a process of generalisation can achieve the same results as specializing, but with less loss of efficiency.
He was criticised for the sweeping generalisations in his historical writing.
The Italian republics of this time, such as Venice and Florence, were becoming increasingly oligarchies, ruled by a small elite.
It would be a mistake to treat all of the paintings thus far analyzed as generalizations; there are some common elements but equally compelling differences.
It can look as if men are making generalisations that favour their own particular prejudices.
In the first half of the 19th century, as migration to the continent started to become more common, several Britons began making generalisations about the French based on this limited sample.
A generalisation is a sweeping statement that covers all members of a category.
It is impossible to make a generalisation about such a large group of people.
The generalisation of mass media has been the subject of angst among intellectuals since the nineteenth century.
The Roman Empire was a generalization of the Roman Republic when it was ruled by an autocratic emperor.
However, other historians have criticized this generalisation, arguing that the role of women differed greatly according to time and place.
Some people find generalisations about religions misleading, implying that all Buddhists are peaceful or all Christians believe in heaven and hell.
Anthropologists have had a hard time drawing generalizations about the Maya due to the wide range of cultures and differences between them.
The Egyptians were famed for their mastery of architecture and construction, creating amazing masterpieces, such as the pyramids and the Sphinx.
In order to accommodate all of the different students' learning styles, teachers have to make generalizations about the way certain types of lessons are organized and taught.
The generalisation that members of higher classes had more chance of being educated was in the main correct, but there were always many centers of learning for the rich, such as the kingdom of Castille in Spain at the time of the Moors.
During the English Civil War, the New Model Army was given the task of protecting the people from their oppressive government.
The use of generalisations make it easier for us to classify and understand the world.
We have made a generalisation that all metals expand when heated.
The idea that mass media could shape and reflect general opinions, tastes, and ideas was a product of the twentieth century.
The idea that all the peoples of the world could be divided into only black and white was a typical example of the Victorian tendency towards generalisation.
George Washington, a pioneer in the art of generalship and a generalisation himself, had warned his peers of half measures.
The strategic bombing during World War II involved making generalisations about what would be important to the enemy and what would demoralise them.
"Don't you know that generalisations are always things that fail to hold up to all the rigors of examination?" Azula asked.
The tendency for groups of people to believe that their culture is typically or generally superior to other cultures is a dangerous tendency which is the root of much conflict.
The problem with generalisation is that while many people believe that it is an easy way of explaining something, it never really gives the whole picture.
The scientists generalisation was proved wrong when a second and third ship sank as well.
The strength of the Internet is that it allows us to make generalizations, which are often true, about a group of people.
The reason for the lack of generalisations is that this was a highly complex situation that cannot be summed up by a single explanation.
The main purpose of the game was to engage players in making generalisations from examples.
Ernst Mach was known for his willingness to discard untestable hypotheses, keeping only those that involved only testable hypotheses and were thus empirical.
A generalization is a word or phrase that encompasses or refers to a whole, distinct group of objects, beings or concepts when there is in fact individuality within the group.
The generalisation that all politicians are corrupt is very wide of the mark.
Although theories about "Anglo-Saxon racism" have been criticised, there is no doubt that the majority of nineteenth-century English people believed they were "racially superior" to other people.
Professor: The reason why...is not important for our purposes.
"In generalisation, in a quick change of ideas, the mind often overlooks this change and assumes that where there is smoke, there must be fire."
Generalisation is a broad statement that covers all members of a category or group.
The word ‘evolution' carries with it a strong generalisation that all species are steadily improving as they evolve and become better adapted to their environment.
From this we can generalise that most of the young want not to be like their parents.
Generalisations are often inaccurate because there are always exceptions to any rule.
The usual generalisation when looking at any English city were the chaotic, dirty streets, the crumbling buildings and perhaps even a hopeless beggar or two.
A reasonable person would not make the generalisation that all politicians are corrupt.
The theory of general relativity implies that time slows down at great speeds and it is possible that at light speed the flow of time stops.
The United States does not engage in generalisations about "the state of the world." Such a view could be the first step toward accepting ideology into its foreign policy, which it reserves the right to refuse.
The usage of the term "man" and "men" to refer to humanity as a whole is now frowned upon in most modern contexts.


#hypocrisy

The voters got their revenge at the next election, which the Liberals spectacularly lost after almost two decades in power. The new party faithful who had not read the small print proceeded to practise their own hypocrisy when in government.
It is difficult to point out any exact moment when hypocrisy became an inherent quality of human nature since so many different events can be classified by it.
Many religious people mocked the former U.S. President, Bill Clinton, for his affair with Monica Lewinsky while remaining personally opposed to things they considered immoral. This is blatant hypocrisy.
The loudest critics of U.S. policy are often people who live in protected environments and rarely encounter the horrors the United States is trying to prevent.
They claimed that their discussions were academic, in the tradition of intellectual debate, and not a justification for the war itself, which they all claimed to be against.
It is still seen as perfectly respectable to be a hypocrite here but this is a relatively recent convention, and one that most members of the older generation are unable to embrace.
They show the hypocrisy of the Romantic intellectual movement that held deeply paternalistic and elitist views of what defined humanity.
The great 20th century economic policies that most people believe in, such as liberalism and socialism, are really just middle ground between the extreme philosophies of capitalism and communism; as such, they contain elements of both.
During the April Crisis, King Louis-Philippe of France was overthrown by a Parisian mob, which instituted a democratic and socialist republic in France.
"However," the old man continues, "there is a certain hypocrisy in this plan. Although it is important to stop the suspects from attacking us, it is also important that we not become a threat to them.
To some extent, Wilson is an intellectual hypocrite.
The attack on the World Trade Center is a good example of the hypocrisy of the United States government.
Also the Church was guilty of great hypocrisy in many ways as it gave privileges to the aristocracy and the rich which it refused to give to others.
To highlight the target's hypocrisy, the group holding the protest has chosen to picket in front of his house rather than the place of business he owns.
Anti-abortionists criticize medical men for their 'hypocrisy' when it comes to abortion.
William II criticized and made jokes at his ministers; he was never willing to forgive anyone who had slighted him and he dismissed the chancellor for marrying Count Vincent Metternich's granddaughter.
The reason why the Nazis opposed jazz music is a matter of speculation, but most commentators agree that it was because they considered it to be intrinsically corrupting, or perhaps because they considered it to be a threat to the achievements of German "pure"
In both the Holocaust and the Rwandan genocide, governmental authorities took children from their families for no other reason other than to cause their parents anguish.
Elite leaders like William of Orange used the spectre of a 'popish plot' to justify their own political hypocrisies.
Although the Catholic Church proclaimed it to be sinful, the Church was one of the largest landowners in medieval Europe and often disobeyed its own proclamation.
The fact that the major powers had promised in the past to keep out of Macedonia but had now sent troops in reply to the fighting was a clear case of hypocrisy.
The senator's speech was admirable for its honesty, especially in contrast to the usual hypocrisy of most politicians.
The philosopher Immanuel Kant said, "Hypocrisy is admissible only when it is necessary,"
George Bernard Shaw once coined the phrase that, "He who can, does. He who cannot, teaches," implying that teachers are intellectual lightweights who couldn't cut it in real life.
Animal rights activists in the United States placed a greater emphasis on changing public attitudes toward animals than on passing reactionary laws.
Almost all religions have buried deep in their core a hypocrisy of which their followers are mostly blissfully unaware.
However, it is the hypocrisy of their actions that angers people the most.
(The word "hypocrisy" means the practice of professing beliefs or values that you do not hold or adhere to.
Yet beneath all this lies a hypocrisy: it is OK to kill provided that you do it for a good purpose.
"The New York Times" alleged that the FBI was planning to use these revelations to discredit Martin Luther King Jr.
The most famous case of hypocrisy in the novel is how the men consider themselves paragons of morality while they engage in secret affairs, coercive relationships and even sexual assaults.
Although Wilberforce was undoubtedly a devout Christian, with a high
While Western governments complained that the communist Eastern bloc was not given a free choice to participate, they ensured that the boycott remained completely voluntary, and did not resort to threats or sanctions against governments or athletes who chose to boycott.
Hindus are forbidden from eating cows, but this rule is widely ignored, and most Indian Muslims and even some Indian Hindus eat beef. This hypocrisy was one of the reasons given by a right-wing Hindu who murdered a visiting U.
The disillusionment with the hypocrisy of the Victorian class system led to many middle-class people turning their backs on the values of a consumer society.
"We recognize the hypocrisy of fighting a war that we criticize others for fighting," the man in the photo is saying.
In theory, the Church of England is tolerant and inclusive, but in practice its rigid intolerance has led to hypocrisy that has left it half-buried in a graveyard of its own making.
The Great Emotian's most vocal critic however was the philosopher Elapor Panjandrum, who was renowned for his fierce tirades against hypocrisy and corruption in all its forms.
Conservatism is a reaction to the dramatic social changes of the 1960s, an attempt to turn back the clock to a period they believe was more moral and stable.
The true hypocrite is one who, even if he does not practice a religious faith, allows the advantages of that faith to be enjoyed by not opposing it in others.
She is also famous for exposing the hypocrisy of the Church in your country.
In the 2012 presidential election, the main opponent of the current us president was a very vocal critic of the us administration's policies in Iraq, before voting to authorize said policies while a senator of the Republic.
Many people criticised the pacifists for their hypocrisy, as they were advocating peace while their government was building up its military forces and planning to go to war.
However, it is perhaps the hypocrites who most offend us, since they pretend to be virtuous
From your research into the World War I era, you already know that people back then weren't as different from people today as many would like to believe; they valued many of the same things, had many of the same hopes and fears, saw
The American 'right to bear arms' is a clear example of the hypocrisy of the American government, claiming to value liberty and freedom, while simultaneously allowing its citizens easy access to weapons.
However, the main parties had developed a way of taking advantage of the proposed changes in the constitution: The new electoral laws ensured that only the six cities with the highest population would be represented in parliament, leaving over half of the country with no voice
It is no longer profitable to continue this charade of respecting the sanctity of human life.
I would expect you to find hypocrisy in a book that criticizes religion while being surrounded by it.
The main cause of the American Civil War was the slavery issue and the hypocrisy of the Northern states in particular concerning this matter.
The reason why some of the men are wearing formal evening wear while others are in uniform is that there are two different parties going on here.
The question that is addressed by this is whether or not the Catholic Church can be considered hypocritical in its official support for the 1918 laws, given the long history of anti-homosexual attitudes displayed by the Catholic church.
The government's presentation of the events was very biased, it only told one side of the story and completely neglected to mention all the times that both sides violated the ceasefires
It has been claimed that the politicians of the democracies are not genuine democrats but extremely selfish individuals who, despite their 'democratic' rhetoric, will do anything to hold on to power and who have campaigned on ‘populist' issues
By law, all citizens are given free access to the internet and to personal computing devices of their choice.
The reason why the United States is engaging in double standards in its foreign policy is that it wants to give the impression of being a caring, sharing nation.
Banks were hypocritical in their professions of community solidarity and cooperation while denying such to Black customers.
Hypocrisy is the act of pretending to have beliefs, virtues, attitudes or feelings that you don't really have.
The scandal highlighted the strong sense of hypocrisy that pervades American society.
However, this argument ignores the fact that the English were acting hypocritically as well.
The scandal exposed the hypocrisy of several West German industrialists who had been generous financial supporters of the Christian Democrats.
To accuse others of what one is guilty of oneself: The immorality of the clergy in the Middle Ages, for example, was notorious. But their hypocrisy was even more blatant.
However, the concept of the free individual was not to die: it turned into a concept not of the downtrodden, but rather a concept of the elite, an ideal of powerful people who used democracy and socialism as a facade to hide their
However, the most powerful testimony against Duchamp's submission isn't even about hypocrisy.
The best proof of Bismark's hypocrisy is that after having given the world "blood and iron,"
As a result, certain groups were outraged by the hypocrisy of the United States, which claimed to be fighting for freedom and human rights in the Middle East with its war on Iraq, but which had several thousand of its citizens in prison for drug offences
He was known as a fierce critic of the Church's hypocrisy and a champion of the poor, and he railed against the corruption of the Church.
The way in which the superpowers could avoid acting hypocritically is to maintain a level of military strength capable of deterring potential conflict.
The American government's policy of mass executions during the Second World War is a glaring example of hypocrisy.
Pericles was a famous Athenian politician who had great success in convincing the citizens of Athens that they should endorse his imperialistic policies, while he hypocritically pursued a private life that was the antithesis of the values he publically preached.
The second example of hypocrisy is in the fact that while it is claimed that the attack on Iraq is to establish democracy, no such effort was made with Saudi Arabia or any of the other countries the United States has show support towards.
Ultimately the war ended in 1697 with the signing of the Karlowitz Treaty, which contained a secret clause that restored Pod to Hungary's sovereignty.
But, the most relentless heresy-hunter of them all was Martin Luther, who ironically could be just as ruthless as he accused the Catholic Church of being.
Yet, by exposing the hypocrisy of others I run the risk of being as hypocritical as they: an intellectual kleptomaniac filching whatever I find in the smart set's lint collection.
The Victorian era is often referred to as a period of great social hypocrisy.
From the end of the 18th century on, and in many parts of Europe it was possible to criticize the government without being imprisoned for hypocrisy.
The hypocrisy of claiming to engage in a war to free other countries from tyranny while denying it to their own citizens was not lost on observers at the time.
This society cares about justice and equality in theory, but not in practice. This is evidenced by the fact that people are rioting for a legal right that places them in direct conflict with the law.
The corruption of the Church which led people to reject the church's authority altogether and paved the way for the Reformation was also largely a result of the hypocrisy of the Catholic clergy.
The worst hypocrite I have ever met was a university professor who was foremost a feminist.
And the last king of Israel, Jehu, who to his credit instituted some social and religious reforms in Israel, was an adulterer and a murderer, and a hypocrite.
"The cry for justice by these companies is outrageous," fumed the politician.
Do these people truly believe in their own stated ideals and rules, or do they in fact just pay lip service to them for the benefit of others?
And as the old man lay dying, he suddenly started to laugh. It was only then that he revealed his true identity; he was Death, and he had been mocking my blind hypocrisy all along.
At the same time, he criticised the Church for its hypocrisy:
However, the greatest criticism that can be directed at middle-class sensibilities is that it was and still is inherently hypocritical.
Much of his most famous book is a criticism of the hypocrisies of the Austrian government.
The leader of a political party that had the words "Family Values" in its official name was caught visiting a prostitutes by a police vice squad.
The three most important leaders of the League were N....Castlereagh, V...Metternich and C...Ch. Talleyrand; they represented the most classic examples of European hypocrisy.
The biggest hypocrisy at the heart of the American government is that the two parties are indistinguishable from one another.


#hypothesize

I will now read you a sentence containing the word "hypothesize".
We can hypothesize that the role of women in the Church actually became more restricted as a result of this event.
Darwin's 'survival of the fittest' theory or 'natural selection' is just a hypothesis; it has not been proven.
The Dutch anatomist Regnier de Graaf in 1671 hypothesized that women's bodies produce an acidic digestive fluid that coagulated with the fetus within the uterus, causing unnatural growths and bulges.
The scientific hypotheses of the day were consistently being disproven as new information came to light.
The historian Luisa Martinelli suggested that the scattered tribes of Britons made contact with the Roman Empire probably did not cross the English Channel to establish regular trade.
The 19th century's most important German philosopher, Immanuel Kant. He hypothesized that connecting the 24th and 20th centuries, in a straight line, would produce a curve, not a straight line.
Darwin made the radical hypothesis that species on islands like these go through developmental stages and end up disappearing completely.
The social data, if correct, may help in this and future efforts to 'hypothesize' about the reasons for changing family forms.
The law that Boveri and Weismann Hypothesized was later named the chromosome theory of inheritance by Sutton...
The theory of relativity was first hypothesized by Einstein in the early twentieth century.
Galileo used astronomical observations to hypothesize that the planets orbited around the sun, not the Earth.
He spends much of "The Ego and His Own" attempting to refute Stirner's hypothesis that humans act out of a love of life rather than a sense of self-loathing.
The study of different types of music is called hypothesis.
Well, the Austrian physician, Freud, hypothesized that most, if not all, daydreams contain some reference to a genital activity.
The Earth's climate has gone through cycles in which it gets warmer and colder. In the 1800s, people began to hypothesize a connection between these climate changes and human activities like burning fossil fuels.
However, the main facts and figures may be less reliable as there was no standard process for reporting vital statistics until the American Association of Vital Statistics was established in 1919.
The hypothesis that early human beings were hunters was based on the early evidence that humans were using weapons to kill animals for food.
The ancient Chinese sometimes made hypotheses when they were trying to understand puzzling and unexpected events.
Dieter Gruener, a geologist at Japan's Tohoku University has hypothesized that the river was formed after an asteroid measuring between 1 and 2 kilometres in diameter crashed into the earth at oblique angle.
Professor: The discovery that the planet Neptune was causing disturbances in the orbit of Uranus led astronomers to hypothesize the existence of a ninth planet.
Personal computing has only been around for a few decades--and it only became available to the general population in the last 30 years or so.
Sir Isaac Newton is best known for formulating the laws of gravitation and motion, which he first hypothesized in his book, Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica.
In order for something to be proved, it must first be hypothesized.
Many historians had to reject the Marxist theory of class struggle and hypothesize that it was actually political and economic struggles that caused the French Revolution.
However, scientists in this field do not yet have enough evidence to conclude that diet caused these physical changes.We can only hypothesize
Barker, a biochemist, hypothesized that the hormone's unusual properties indicated that it might be used to treat diseases involving the immune system, such as AIDS.
Gravity was well-studied and well-understood by the ancient Greeks and extensively discussed in Newton's time, yet the relationship between gravity and light had only been hypothesized by Einstein in his special theory of relativity.
Einstein spent the years 1907 to 1909 searching for a way to disprove relativity, but in vain; only then did he publish his results.
Many anthropologists and biologists, however, have accepted the hypotheses of the geneticists.
"Why would someone want to go through the trouble of torturing her?" you think aloud.
Darwin articulated his insights into the theory of evolution in a famous, although not widely understood, book called The Origin of the Species.
In the fifth century BCE; a Greek philosopher named Anaxagoras hypothesized that the seeds of plants fall down from their pods.
Mothers in small communities tend to all give birth around the same time.
Many criminologists have hypothesized that media violence influences real-life human behavior.
The doctor used positron emission tomography to attempt to hypothesize the nature of your symptoms.
"This finding doesn't prove that vision therapy can improve the eyesight of people with normal vision or even those with slightly defective vision," she hypothesizes.
The statement "our ancestors came from Africa" is a hypothesis since it is still not proven to be a fact.
The geneticists hypothesize that humans left Africa between 50,000 and 60,000 years ago, reaching Europe and Australia around 40,000 years ago.
Charles Darwin hypothesized that life is a process of modification from earlier forms in response to changes in environment.
The most revolutionary aspect of the new physics is that it was formulated with special and general relativity, which hypothesize that energy and matter are two different hand sides of the same coin.
Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, that animals developed differently when isolated from others, was first hypothesized in the 1830s.
The common-sense hypotheses were quickly discarded as unsatisfactory.
"Gravity," he would hypothesize, "is a product of the angular momentum of the fabric of the universe."
However, many of the expeditioners, having little or no knowledge of ice navigation and in most cases having no practical experience of seafaring whatsoever, didn't stand a chance.
Some early astronomers hypothesize that the nebulas were other planets like our own solar system, only very far away.
Alfred Russell Wallace independently came up with a similar idea, which he tried to hypothesize would help separate humans from animals.
The idea that the sun revolves around the earth was hypothesized by Galielo when he noticed that all the planets and the moon revolved around the sun, while he observed the sun to be stationary.
The British biologist Thomas Huxley was one of the first to hypothesize how these unwieldy animals might have moved about.
The physical similarities between humans and chimps imply a common ancestry; while such similarities in themselves aren't proof of this hypothesis.
The first sentence of each paragraph contains a word or words for which you are requested to help the Professor find a suitable sentence.
Darwin's hypothesis was that birds with the inherited instinct to return to their places of birth would do so even if they had migrated great distances.
They would also see what a hypothesis is based on evidence and experience,
Darwin had hypothesize that the Galapagos Islands' unique species, such as its famous tortoises, had formed after years of island hopping from continental Ecuador.
Professor: In 1676, in a book called 'Examen of Hobbes', Spinoza engaged in some 'thought experiments' and hypothetical questions to prove God's independence and immutability.
As the twentieth century progresses, more and more women are becoming doctors, in part because medical schools have started admitting them in large numbers to offset a severe drop in male applicants due to World War II
Einstein's theory that an observer watching a particle would not be able to tell it was moving at all, even though someone not observing would see it as always moving.
The early Europeans hypothesize that a comet caused the extinction of animals and the Ice Age extinction at the end of the Paleogene.
Marx and Engels spent much time hypothesizing about the possible fate of societies based upon who held power, and how that power was acquired.
Charles Darwin wrote an early paper suggesting that species on islands might become extinct because their unique species might not be adapted to the environmental conditions there.
The Church did not at first publicly oppose the theory, which in any case contradicted neither the Bible nor Catholic doctrine.
Ptolemy had hypothesized that the earth was in the center of the universe and everything, including the sun, revolved around it.
Some people have hypothesized that it was a comet, but there is no evidence yet to support that claim.
Now, take a piece of paper and write 5 sentences.
Charles Darwin was a naturalist and he didn't just hypothesize about evolution he collected many facts and observations to support his theories.
Psychologists are using brain scans to study the neural correlates of mental and behavioral functioning.
The existence of the creature was merely hypothesized by naturalists in order to explain various events such as mysterious murders or roadkilled horses.
The prisoners could communicate by tap code and used it to hypothesize about who had put them there.
Life in the oceans died many times, for example, but the evidence suggests that it was due to changes in the oceans and not because of falling oxygen levels.
In addition, the ancient Mesopotamians didn't have a system of writing down speech sounds, known as phonetic writing.
The party was of no interest to historians, who knew only too well where it had led the country. But the beginning was innocuous, just a social gathering of a few friends in Fulton's parlor.
In the mid 1800s, Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace separately hypothesized that organisms evolve over time.
In 1856, a doctor named Semmelweis hypothesized that puerperal fever (or "childbed fever", as it was then known) was contagious.
Hume wasn't really proposing a new theory of the universe when he wrote the "Treatise". Rather, he was hypothesizing that human nature and how we perceive things is based upon mental associations.
When the settlers first arrived in the Caribbean, they were under orders to Christianize the populace.
I feel that one of the few benefits of the recessionary economy is that women, especially, are more open to hypotheses on career changes.
One of the earliest hypotheses was that the man had died while trying to block a stream of water with his hands, and later decomposed.
These objects are not part of a previously identified archeological culture and many aspects of their composition are similar to cultures that pre-date pottery, such as the Ainu of Japan and some Aboriginal cultures of Australia.
Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace were naturalists who spent a lot of time, in the early to mid 1800s; searching for insects and animals that were new to science in the jungles of Southeast Asia, in South America and on the
The new weapons would cause immense suffering and the government would need to hypothesize that the average person was ready to accept it.
However, they then had to decide whether to leave the part of the population with the original gene or add another gene from another source.
In this case, we will let you know that the word you have asked for is "hypothesize"; this is used by a German philosopher in a different context.
The scientist hypothesized that the increase in plankton abundance was causing a greater amount of oxygen to be released into the atmosphere.
Many of the fundamental methods of chemistry had been hypothesized by early chemists, but Withering went further and tested these theories by performing experiments.
The pilot reported a momentary loss of control, which he attributed to extreme weather conditions.
I can't imagine a single hypothesis about the relationship between sleep and memory that couldn't be immediately tested as to whether it's true or not.


#illustrate

This chart illustrates the various factors that contributed to the disaster.
The Bourgeoisie's demand for a greater say in government policy culminated in the abandonment of absolute monarchy in favour of representative democracy.
In May 1874, conflict erupted between France and Germany.
While my father was a religious and traditional man, he also had a practical side, and when my mother gave birth to an albino and superstition demanded his death, he went into hiding and later effected an escape from our village with
The "Glorious Revolution" of 1688 in England illustrated the concept of a limited constitutional monarch for the first time.
'She had one of those mouths that look too small for her face, the lower lip almost non-existent, as if to illustrate that all the sentiment in the world would never turn this into a kisser.
The first section of the textbook will illustrate these features in detail.
The Treaty of Tordesillas, which delineated the line of demarcation between Spanish and Portuguese claims in the New World can be used to illustrate his point.
The painting illustrates a story from the ancient Indian epic poem the Ramayana.
Only by sitting regularly down to read and listen to classical pieces, no matter how boring you might find them at first, will you really illustrate the importance of these concepts.
If you believe that wealth is evenly distributed among people in our society, then this graph should really illustrate the need for a revolution in the way wealth is distributed!
"The purpose of the course is to give you an insight into some specific management activities and to illustrate their value in health care settings."
In his book The Descent of Man, Charles Darwin uses many examples to illustrate his argument.
One of the key attempts to break through the sound barrier was by Captain Victor Wouk in October 1944, when he piloted a Bell rocket plane at an altitude of 45,000 feet.
The artists' work of the Meji period is also known for illustrate the importance of government policies on the lives of average people.
"A logical person could easily illustrate that two and two makes four, but could you explain to an ignorant person why this is so?"
"However, there are probably flaws in this theory, since it was determined from a simple observation."
His paintings of the poor and suffering of 19th-century Paris illustrated his wish for social change.
Hegel was one of the most important philosophers in Western history.
Lance Armstrong, as well as most other cancer patients, probably didn't feel like their lives were threatened by their illness, which is what most cancer experts would argue in an attempt to illustrate the survival rate of cancer patients.
At the dawn of the 20th century, in New South Wales, women could not yet vote and were unable to sit in the state parliament.
The above point illustrates the fact that many educated people in the ancient world were aware that the earth was a sphere rather than flat, a misconception that popular culture has often attributed to the medieval period.
The Battle of Fort Ticonderoga illustrated the strength of the American artillery.
The events leading up to the assassination of a prominent member of the Geula society by two of its members illustrate the fierce religious and political struggles in Palestine at that time.
"In the coming years the transition of power will have to be managed carefully by all groups involved, particularly in order to avoid any suggestion of preferential treatment or discrimination."
If you want to understand the concept of freedom in relationship to the United States and to other countries, it's useful to look at what has happened in history and see how those who influenced our country used freedom as an argument or a reason for events
The rise of the spread of Islam among the Turks illustrates the importance of religion in human affairs.
One of the most important factors in urbanization is the growth of the transport sector. Urban areas need mass transit systems to reduce private car usage and therefore reduce traffic congestion, which in turn reduces urban pollution and leaves more room for new development.
The Civil War illustrated the weaknesses of the Federal system by allowing a deplorable situation to the point where it threatened the unity of the country.
The following example illustrates the problem.
But the fact remains that these books must be illustrated and it is important that such a large part of our history is not forgotten.
Some features of his films, such as the closeup, long take and flashbacks, were later used by other directors to great effect.
He illustrated his theory with references to several paintings by Monet and other impressionists.
The allies chose not to march into Berlin; they did not illustrate their power by humiliating the Germans.
The artist tried to illustrate the horrific nature of war by putting a skull on the top of the cross.
A story that illustrates the importance of symbolism is Hans Christian Andersens's "The Princess and the Pea".
The English Civil War from 1642 to 1651, which Oliver Cromwell's Parliament won, illustrates the execution of Charles I in 1649 and the declaration by the Puritan Parliament that it was forming a republic.
Professor:The French and Indian War was fought between France and Great Britain mainly through their colonial subjects in North America and also in India and the high seas.
The historian's job is to take statements from the past and illustrate them in the present.
The Protestant Reformation is probably the best example to illustrate this phenomenon; a conflict between the church and state authorities broke out and ultimately split Christianity into several denominations.
The American Dream is an idea that poor immigrants can achieve prosperity and success through hard work.
Another worker, John (22), without a legal qualification, was forced to work as a common labourer based on the rate for an unskilled worker.
Kipling's writing illustrates classic attitudes to imperial domination.
One example of the way in which written language illustrated these developments is the idea of writing being used to advance and refute arguments in books, newspapers and essays; without the written word the Scientific Revolution could not have been possible.
The industrial revolution illustrates the fact that growth in technology does not necessarily lead to a reduction in working hours.
In 1805 the Napoleonic armies had conquered much of continental Europe, but now, in 1812, they found themselves stuck in the swamps of what is now Russia. They were unable to advance any further and had to retreat.
The book illustrates its thesis with a vivid description of the events that led up to the American Civil War.
He used the example of how in many cultures, but especially Asian cultures, people tend to think that someone who is very very old is also often very wise and dignified.
The film ‘Pleasantville' (1998) illustrates the concept that if a person is placed in an environment which is unlike their original one, they will begin to internalize the values of this new environment.
For me, the materialist theory of human nature that has been developed as a result is not only able to illustrate aspects of life in modern society, but can also be used to shed light on social problems such as drug abuse.
The best works of the Elizabethan era illustrate a growing interest in the world around them.
In the sixteenth century, many artists began to illustrate fairy stories.
The fall of the Roman Empire is a good example of a civilization that collapsed.
(LINK REMOVED)
He created a sophisticated computer program that illustrated his theories on the English language.
The development of germ theory in the mid 1800s was crucial in demonstrating how diseases could be classified and scientifically named.
The July 27 Incident occurred in this year, 1916, where to get rid of his political rivals, Prime Minister Trelawny issued an arrest warrant for ten members of the House.
The dramatic increase in the use of coal as a power source in Britain in the 18th and 19th century is an example that dramatically illustrates the role of coal.
Professor: The evidence of this is in the painting itself, which clearly isn't realistic, as the figures are all different sizes and some are cut off by the frame while others over lap.
The massive parades in the USSR during World War II were an example of propaganda which illustrated Stalin's demand for respect.
(The professor pauses) The Gutenberg press, the work of Henry VIII's physician William Harvey on the circulation of the blood, Charles Darwin's theory of evolution and the polio vaccine all illustrate this fact.
For example, cameras attempt to illustrate the world as we see it; internet allows us to communicate at the speed of light.
"The big bang is the most reasonable explanation we have for what the universe is," says Schmidt, "and I think it's the illustration of a creator."
The Battle of Kosovo in 1389 illustrated the decline of the medieval Serbian Empire.
For example, the invention of the stirrup in the Dark Ages illustrates how seemingly insignificant things can have a far-reaching effect.
You will write your short essay on the topic the limits of free speech.
Due to its adaptability, the brain is able to illustrate the most fundamental property of intelligence.
The army was distinctly non-Swiss: of the 22,000 soldiers who invaded France only 4000 were native Swiss.
The American Civil War of 1861-1865 illustrated the fact that in any war there is bound to be strong disagreement between people of the same nation.
These changes include the development of cities, writing and a class system.
The charts I drew illustrate my argument.
Quetzalcoatl, the Aztec feathered serpent god, is often used to illustrate the technological accomplishments of the ancient people of Mesoamerica.
The original purpose of the stockade was to illustrate the power of the state.
The invention of paper is a good example that the most useful inventions are not the result of planning but of the trial-anderror process.
The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, which was ultimately one of the causes of the war.
Nuremberg Laws: The Nuremberg Laws of 1935 was a set of regulations that hindered Jewish people. These laws included testing whether one was Jewish by birth or not and depriving Jews of the right to intermarry with Aryans.
The water cycle illustrates the movement of matter between earth and atmosphere.
The importance of the battle is difficult to illustrate in words.
The existence of these documents illustrate some of the aspects of married life in the medieval era.
Due to the inefficiency of carriages and coaches, trains were used primarily to transport people and materials over long distances.
Whilst I was in hospital, my sister brought me in some books to illustrate this period.
The plan illustrates the futility of the dominant strategy of providing security through offensive attacks on peripheral areas.
The main purpose of the painting is to provide a visual example of
The best way to illustrate this would be to compare the DNA of the mitochondria in the egg of a mother to the mitochondrial DNA of the father.
The limitations imposed by necessity forced revolutionary change.
The French and American Revolutions of the late eighteenth century are important in the history of world for they illustrated the concept that many people believed at the time; namely, that all people are born equal.
Shakespeare's plays illustrate this most clearly in his treatment of kings.
Cranial measurement was used to 'show' different human races possessed different intelligence and abilities, illustrating the concept of scientific racism.
The civil rights movement in the United States during the twentieth century illustrates this point of view.
The distinction between plants and animals was first clearly drawn by Aristotle, who used the categories to organize the diversity of life in his Historia Animalium.
The massive growth in the numbers of people in the second half of the eighteenth century meant that poverty and disease became much more widespread


#impetus

The development of the printing press with movable type was one of the most important events of the Renaissance, providing the impetus for the Reformation.
The removal of trade restrictions and tariffs was seen as cementing relations with the recently independent nation.
The Dadaists were cynical about the "killing spree" and gave it no additional impetus, but fortunately they didn't really contribute to the war effort in any meaningful way.
The energy to pursue a new life came from the impetus of overcoming the obstacles that fate had placed in his path.
The impetus for the new focus on farming came from populations that had colonized the New World and no longer had to rely on hunting and gathering.
The impetus for European explorers to expand West was to find a direct water route to the Far East or to find a Northwest Passage.
Over the last several decades, unprecedented economic growth in East Asia has occurred due to integration into the world economy and the stimulus of external trade.
And there is always the need to improve the newly acquired skill and give it a special, individual name. The impetus for this is competition.
The European states were motivated to enforce the New World colonies to trade only with them, thus giving them an impetus to explore and find a shorter route to the Indies.
The events of 1848 are often seen as a continuation of the previous year's uprising, but they were also the result of shifts within European society which had been gaining momentum since the early 18th century.
The expansion of Islam in the 7th century gave a great impetus to finding simpler methods, as the Koran includes several sheets of mathematical information, which helped stabilize Muslim society by promoting intellectual growth.
The current chair of advisory board has been the impetus behind the Tech North initiative.
The first university in the United States was Harvard and it was also the culmination of a series of developments in education in the 17th century that gave impetus to its establishment.
The Grand Campaign resulted from the success of the Norwegian Campaign and provided the impetus for other offensives planned by Germany.
The institution of slavery was now itself in need of justification, and this was provided by the concept of racial difference, which gave slavery a new impetus.
The monarchy in Britain was given impetus by William of Normandy when he led his invasion against the English.
The cause of the first world war is high- ly unclear and debate continues about its major underlying
The World Wide Web was initially created with the impetus of a need to improve communication between particle physicists at CERN, but has developed into a general resource.
In the beginning it may well have been an oversight, a sentence without the proper end-of-paragraph punctuation, but soon it became an accepted phrase and eventually became the impetus for what has now become America's largest prison system.
Without the impetus of religious fervor and revolutionary zeal driving it, the American Revolution petered out by the early 1780s.
The industrial revolution gave a great impetus to advances in medicine by increasing the rate of population growth.
The report gave the impetus for an intensive research program into the handling of nuclear power reactors.
The list of charges against the company included fraud, tax evasion, as well as theft of private and government property and the violation of countless safety standards for the infamous Ford Pinto.
The idea that the four elements make up everything, was well-established in ancient Greek understanding of the physical world.
The impetus for the development of these weapons was the invention of the self-igniting fuel, or diesel.
The Industrial Revolution of the mid-eighteenth to nineteenth centuries was ignited by the discovery that steam power could be harnessed for production.
Financial institutions in France and Britain provided the impetus for a recovery in Europe.
The actions of the May Fourth Movement are seen as a key motivator for the development of early Chinese communism and its ideologies.
Surprisingly for one of such humble origins, Jean-Baptiste Lully acquired an expensive education, which included music lessons from his role in the royal court, and ultimately gave him the impetus, the means and the inspiration to compose his
The origins of the scientific outlook that developed in ancient Greece are to be found in the pre-Socratic philosophers. One historian summed up their work by saying that they had "a fondness for abstract idea and logic".
Religious debates gave impetus to the translation of ancient writings into Latin and other widely spoken languages in the fifteenth century.
The collapse of the USSR was the dramatic end to four decades of Cold War that were an impetus for rapid innovation in space technology and rocketry.
The discovery of the New World in 1492 gave the impetus for the development
The British, however, gave the movement a great impetus by abolishing their own
Shifts in how science was funded and organized had occurred before the war—the impetus for such changes was World War I.
The GIs brought with them the distinctive lifestyle of American youth: sports, jukeboxes, fast food, and above all music, impetuous as ever, the Americans recklessly flung themselves into this new world.
Despite their victories on the battlefield and the impetuousness of youth, Ludendorff was molding them into a well-oiled killing machine.
The impetus for the war in Iraq came from the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001.
The First World War was very important in giving impetus to the women's suffrage movement.
The rebuilding of the Jewish temple in the Roman province of Judea provided the Romans with the impetus to punish King
Until the early 1800s, the center of mathematics was still in Europe, primarily in France and Switzerland.
However, the main impetus for his change in diet was that he became a vegetarian when he fell in love with his future wife, Ann.
the writings of the left-wing marxist historians gave the new social history its impetus
It was the impetus for later revolutions in human thought, such as the Age of Enlightenment.
I believe the people who instigated the uprising in Rwanda had an agenda for power which was the impetus for them to destroy the Hutus.
It has been suggested that the Iraq War gave impetus to the jihadist movements
The English colonists' desire for self-government was the impetus for the American Revolution
Another problem with the centralised, top-down government approach is that it tends to give impetus to further centralization and concentration of power in the hands of a few rulers.
Implementation of the printing press was a turning point for the spread of ideas, and one of those ideas was the Protestant Reformation.
Unfortunately, the impetus that caused the development of antibiotics was World War II and the realization that their development could be used to overcome bacterial diseases that were killing soldiers on a massive scale.
The impetus toward democracy in Europe occurred as a result of two world wars which exhausted the resources of several European nations, leaving only one option for reorganization: democratization.
The Church began to lose its power and authority from the time of the Renaissance and Reformation as it became less involved with government, and other institutions, such as public schools and the 'print revolution' began to assume some of its roles.
However, as agriculture developed over the years, so did the complexity of human societies. More people produced more goods and services. It was this impetus that led to the creation of the earliest civilizations.
The French Revolution was motivated in part by the ideas of the Enlightenment, which had provided the intellectual impetus for many important changes in society.
The rise of the internet gave the impetus for publishers to produce cheaper literature in amounts that had never been envisioned.
The new methods of transportation also gave great impetus to trade between the colonies and the metropolis.
The remilitarization of the Rhineland marked an important step in Hitler's efforts to revitalize Germany militarily.
The most important cause of the Civil War was slavery, but it does not explain why it was fought when it was. Slavery gave the conflict its impetus.
The discovery of the circulation of blood was the crucial impetus for the modernization of surgery in the seventeenth century.
The shift from the divine right of kings to the dominance of democracy was given impetus by advances in...
The impetus for Britain joining the European Community was London's desire to open up some land routes to trade with the growing Russian Empire.
In the late Middle Ages, a renewed interest in ancient learning provided the impetus for what became the Renaissance.
The agreement will also provide the impetus for the early completion of a World Trade
Her death gave impetus to the suffragette movement in the United States.
The center of the French New Wave was Paris, where the filmmakers and the chief figures of the movement, Jean-Luc Godard, François Truffaut and Jacques Rivette, lived.
The impetus for the development of the assembly line came from the frustration Henry Ford's car builders had with his cars breaking down.
Graham was also the person who, more than anyone else, gave the fledgling discipline of sociology its impetus.
It was under Charles II that the idea of slavery first got momentum and even though he personally disagreed with it, he gave impetus to the slave trade.
Galileo's original observations and ideas about the solar system gave it the impetus to overthrow the geocentric theory.
In the 1960s, the civil rights movement provided much of the impetus for the change.
The process leading to World War I had its impetus in the 1880s.
The reading conveys a general sense of the social and political forces that were unleashed by the conflict and gives the impetus for the next term's discussion of the war itself.
It was also strongly supported by the growing anti-slavery movement in America, which gave it a great impetus.
The discovery of new, important fossil finds gave more impetus to the changes in evolutionary theory than anything else.
The discovery of the structure of DNA was the impetuous towards the scientific revolution that has shaped our world; who knows what kind of science will be discovered in the next half century?
It was the impetus behind much of their earlier works.
The idea of a Jewish nation received its first impetus during the 19th century Jewish Enlightenment.
In response to the assassination the senate eagerly passed the "Final Solution", which is a euphemism for genocide.
The development of a steam-powered engine was one of several innovations that greatly accelerated the global trading of commodities and the dissemination of ideas.
The Iraq War and the war on terror were the impetus for the re-founding of the Islamic Empire.
The impetus behind the voyages of discovery was a desire to find a new route to the spice-producing islands of Indonesia.
The argument that racial integration is vital for economic progress continues to be the most widely accepted explanation for the civil rights movement.
The evolution of the wrist gave modern humans the extra leverage to throw a stone hard enough to kill, and this gave impetus to weapons development
The rise of gunpowder weapons gave impetus to the development of full body armour.
Castro's actions had provided Cuba with the impetus to abandon its former colonial overlords.
It was also the first occasion in history when a war had a global impact, prompting the rise of a group of international newspapers that dramatically increased the coverage and reporting of it, creating an implicit pressure on governments to intervene and lend support to their country
The spread of Christianity in ancient Rome was given impetus by the decision of Emperor Constantine to make it the religion of the Empire.
The idea that human kind was a separate species from every other animal was the impetus for the establishment of zoological parks and aquariums.
(NO EXAM QUESTION)
The specter of Communism was the impetus for most Western politicians' opposition to world government.
There were many reasons why Elizabeth I wanted to defeat the Spanish armada in 1588, not least because her spies had heard reports of an alliance against her involving Pope Sixtus V and King Philip II of Spain.
In the late 18th century the growth of industry and an increase in trade gave impetus to the search for new routes that would be shorter and quicker.
The Battle of Trafalgar (which took place in 1805 off the coast of Spain) was an attempt to cut off the supply of Men and provisions for Napoleon's army back in france.
The development of baroque style in the seventeenth century was given impetus by the new ideas about art from classical ancient civilizations that were being rediscovered at that time.
Only the British Isles seem to have escaped the worst effects of the plague.


#implication

The most controversial implication of the geneticists' work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
The most controversial implication of the geneticists' work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
Clearly these sentences contain a wealth of knowledge about English as they are spoken in real life, however, the more you encounter into other popular media such as news, or social media sites such as Facebook,
The most controversial implication of the geneticists' work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
The most controversial implication of the geneticists' work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
"One idea is that the human brain developed language ability to the point that it could invent things, such as tools."
The most controversial implication of the geneticists' work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
The most controversial implication of the geneticists' work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
It is a serious misinterpretation of the facts to suggest that Iraq under Saddam Hussein was somehow a threat to the world.
It is a serious misinterpretation of the facts to suggest that Iraq under Saddam Hussein was somehow a threat to the world.
The most controversial implication of the geneticists' work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
The most controversial implication of the geneticists' work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
The most controversial implication of their work is that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
You briefly think about where you want to go to next and what you want to accomplish.
are more important than the factors of gender or race.
Great success! You've passed the test.
The game ends here.


#implicit

Nietzsche, while critical of organized religion, didn't deny that Christianity was an important part of European history and had in fact laid the foundations for both the Renaissance and the Age of Enlightenment.
It's often hard to spot embedded phrases and sentences within sentences like these because they're so ubiquitous in our language that their presence tends to be implicit.
The revolution was led implicitly by the blue-collar workers who provided the muscle that executed the attacks and implicitly by students, the radical intellectuals of society.
"Listen to me carefully," he said with quiet but implicit urgency. "You absolutely can't mention your father's business dealings to anyone, especially the police."
The King's message was an implied order; everyone knew what had to be done, even if he didn't say it directly.
If you have an implicit trust in your partner, then you are bound to be let down at some point.
There was an implicit agreement that whoever spoke first would be held responsible for whatever the group did.
One of the most important ideas in the Age of Enlightenment was that every person had certain basic rights and that a government's job was to recognize and protect those rights.
Another reason for the long-lasting feud was that there was an implication that the marriage had never been consummated and so it could be annulled.
Antibiotics have saved many lives, and continue to do so in the war against disease; however, unless used with care they can have serious implications for human health in the future
Those citizens who had not fled the city soon fell ill with the zombie plague and died, but unlike normal zombies they did not come back to life, their bodies remaining immune to the implcite command of the supervirus to rise again.
The principal implication of the rise in crime rate in the city centers was that people wanted more security.
For example, in the branch of logic called deductive reasoning, the conclusion is given before the premise is stated. Hence if you know the conclusion, you should also be able to work out the premise. The premise is implicit in the conclusion.
The problem with this explanation is that it requires one to assume that the originators of the kingdom implicitly trusted the Church, despite its history of being run for profit.
It was important for children to maintain the fiction that there was a Santa Claus, but the adults were under no such 'implicit obligation'.
'It is two o'clock in the morning,' he wrote, 'the waters are fast rising and an horror unknown din this place.
It wasn't just that the first settlement of these islands was by skilled navigators. It's also that it appears they had an excellent sense of direction - what is known as "grid reading" or "dead reckoning".
A positive attitude helps to make work more enjoyable, but it also plays an important part in one's health.
The use of such symbols in art has continued ever since and is still widespread, although their meaning has long since become more implicit than explicit.
The new law is an implicit admission that racial discrimination is illegal.
It's hard to believe that you have been taught to read and write, yet never been given the tools to think about what reading and writing really imply.
In between the acts of defiance and civil disobedience by Indian and African Americans, there was a quiet movement towards liberation. This involved the use of legal frameworks such as the 14th and 15 Amendments of the US constitution.
The interest payments are implicit in the price of any manufactured product.
'The law is often called the "law of implicit consent", which sounds like a good idea to me,' the Prime Minister said.
Some people believe that the final liberation of the working class will only come when the capitalist system is replaced with a new socialist or communist order; their support for socialism is thus an implied support for communism.
People with implicit talent are usually only at the initial stages of recognizing their abilities.
The official rationale was that the king's increasingly inept rule had allowed the country to veer near anarchy, which would have been bad for the Implicit Chemical Company, if only because it would have put the lives of its employees in danger.
The term 'fashion' is used here to imply the latest designs paid for by a company to encourage people to buy and by media to encourage people to imitate.
"This is an implicit assumption of his argument," she stated,
The only benefit lay in greater freedom for the Crown's judges to decide meanings of laws in which the law itself was often unclear, ambiguous and implicit.
Some of the basic ideas in the theory of evolution are now held to be true even by many creationists, since they are necessary for any kind of biological science, and are often referred to as its "implicit assumptions"
The hard work and the scientific approach instilled into you by your professors has distinguished you from others in this field.
There is no way of knowing for sure what people's implicit, or unconscious motivation is.
Quick-witted and implicit, you were only able
Unlike its predecessors, the Magna Carta was written down and thus was an important step towards making the law a document that could be interpreted by judges, rather than having to rely upon often vague and implicit notions of what the law was.
I do not think that we can be implicit in the use of large amounts of tax-payers money for projects that could be dubious in their effects.
The work of the German philosopher Georg Hegel helped pave the way for fascism by arguing that a nation is more than an accumulation of individuals but also a single entity with its own reality, what he called "the spirit of the people."
Cranial capacity rather than tools are the most important key to determining what we call civilization, even though the earliest paleontologists paid little attention to this fact, implying that ancient humans had smaller brains than their modern counterparts.
The rules of the exam are not one of the things that we state directly but rather imply.
The contract had an implicit understanding that he would be paid more if the machine was finished ahead of schedule.
One compelling challenge to the dominance of market economies came from socialism which rejected capitalism's relentless pursuit of profit, claiming that it resulted in a kind of greed that exploited working men.
Much of our legal system is based on ideas of fairness that are implicit in most people's consciousness, even if they couldn't necessarily rigourously justify them.
While issues of race and class are implied by the novel, it is more concerned with gender roles and debates over public versus private responsibilities.
Violations of the guidelines were often made implicitly, rather than enunciating specific rules and their accompanying punishments.
Tacitus is the earliest known source of the myth of Germany's origin in ancient Troy.
The expression of a person's belief that something is good implies the existence of the thing being believed.
The relationship between health and wealth is an interesting one, since it is fairly implicit that they are interdependent; poverty has been empirically proved to have been the underlying cause of illness in many cases.
The assumption that what the audience wants is more of the same, a James Bond movie, for example, is an example of what is known as an 'implicit' message.
The information which the team found is an implicit indication that our god was in fact an alien who landed on earth millennia ago and guided the planet's development, from single-celled organisms to complex life, towards its current form.
In film school, you discovered that despite your love of film, you had an innate inability to actually analyze films or understand their deeper meanings which all the people around you, even the mediocre ones, seemed to grasp intuitively.
The patriot was implicitly warning against the dangers of a tyrannical government.
As we have seen, during the 17th century religion played an important role in New England settlements. One of the fundamental reasons for this was that most of the settlers were religious Puritans who wished to create a society which reflected their religious values.
A nation that has well-established rules and laws would imply, "this is the way things are done," and people don't tend to stray from such standards or rules.
These were the issues that concerned the minds of our early humans, an existence filled with superstition and implicit obedience to a ruler, political or religious.
Democracy is an implicit assumption in the way that we run our own government.
But in studying Victorian photography, it is important to remember that it was more than the mere recording of facts; it had an implicit moral code.
The fact that it was very cold last night is an example of a fact that can be implicitly understood from the presence of frost this morning.
"The New Deal was an example of economic stimulus," Hank said, giving an implicit criticism of recent austerity measures in some parts of the Anglophone world.
The artist stated his belief that the inherent ambiguity of language, which necessarily has many interpretations, was a basis for our humanity.
Sadly, the Church's teaching about religious tolerance had now been implicitly rejected by the majority of Afghans.
The biology teacher hands you a sentence with 'reputation'.
The two obvious theories were the Artificial Intelligence theory and the Implicit Memory theory.
In these matters there are no hard and fast rules, just suggestions - and it's often better to ignore the rules than to apply them when they don't make sense.
The peace that Europe enjoyed in the eighteenth century was very much an "implicit" one—it relied on states not challenging the balance of power.
It is hoped that by encouraging the building of links between the Primarks and the rest of us, an implicit alliance may be formed and that this will lead to a slow blurring of the boundaries between species.
The doctrine of popular sovereignty was an implicit rejection of the concept that kings inherited their powers from God.
A molecular biologist at University College London
The theory of ‘survival of the fittest' was developed by Herbert in the mid-nineteenth century. It is a theory that is still accepted today and is the basis of much of biology.
The value of a gold coin in the eighteenth century, for example, was not an explicit or clearly defined value; it was implicitly defined by the amount of gold in the coin.
However, while the ideology was officially promoted, it was more of an 'implicit doctrine.
When the more civilized peoples of Europe came into contact with the less civilized, they could take advantage of trade. This is known as "exploitation," and colonial resource extraction is a good example of this.
The attitude of the average Vietcong soldier towards his Commander in Chief, Ho Chi Minh, was an implicit one, based on traditional reverence for and obedience to an older ancestor-figure.
The idea of political correctness is an attempt to eradicate tacit prejudices from language and behavior.
Nowadays the idea that primitive people had a deep spiritual understanding of nature is an implicit assumption of many New Age movements.
Jesse Jackson's presidential campaign in 1988 was the first time many white Americans realized that there was another serious black candidate besides Gary Hart - Jackson's campaign was an implicit criticism of the racial segregation of the American political system.
Implicit in this is the idea that the natural world consists of separately identifiable laws, rules and processes.
He had an implicity that they would support his idea.
An important part of reading is deciding which information in a sentence is "explicit" or stated explicitly and which is "implicit"...
She found the process of assigning grades to be very depressing and felt that it was counter-productive since it made students demotivated. The grading process was not only stressful for the students but also for her as the professor.
The idea that a sapling has the potential to grow into an oak is an implicit one.
It's obviously important that you have confidence in your own abilities, and self-confidence is an important aspect of leadership.
He was given a position of power, and the task of overseeing the transition to peace. His belief that such an ambitious plan was doomed to failure was, however, implicit in everything he did.
"Sustainable development" has become a sort of magic phrase in recent years and is often used implicitly as a rationale for various human activities.
The trouble with the training practice is that it takes too long to be efficient in treating real wounds, and delivery of first aid becomes an implicit part of every procedure instead of being a separate skill.
In the ancient world education was a 'ladder', you started at the bottom with the bricks and slowly moved up to the more abstract principles embodied in the 'skylight'.
The idea of the existence of an inner world is implicit in the works of many early religions.
"Wales is not like Ireland. There is no love lost between the English and the Irish, but there always has been a lot of affection for the Welsh," observed Martin.


#imply

Many historians agree that the changes that followed industrialization altered human society imply that we can predict future changes too.
The current health secretary's implication is that if every family in Britain took on one of these orphans, the problem would be solved.
The fact that the king stayed at the Duke's house and rode in his carriage implies that he was either very fond of him or trusted him.
Professor: The most controversial implicatio
He didn't directly state that the coach was cheating; he merely implied it by saying that you couldn't give a team an unfair advantage without cheating.
In most of these events, the government seems to have accepted the court's judgement in implying that it had the power over the government itself.
The fact that many of them were living in small villages with no regular contact with the outside world implies that they had a marketing system set up to distribute their work.
The information he had provided implies that he has committed a number of illegal acts.
The sky is darkening, which implies that it will soon rain.
The strike implies a complete halt to all work, except in cases involving the safety of people.
The discovery that the universe began with a Big Bang implies that it must have had a beginning and thus a Creator.
The oligarchy saw the aristocracy not as a separate and equal branch of government, but as another group that would like to see it harm, unlike the military which was seen as an extension of the oligarchy itself.
The religious music that the slaves sang suggested to many that they had a level of spirituality superior to the culture that oppressed them.
'The weather report implies that it's going to be hot tomorrow.
‘Which newspaper do you imply when you say ‘a newspaper'?'
The discovery of the new islands did not imply that there would be wealth or resources of any kind there, let alone Treasure.
Your theory doesn't imply that humans evolved from primates?
The changes in the landscape imply that this is the track of a hurricane.
Some of the books imply that the sculptor was a great lover of ...
By using dogs to imply incest in Greek culture, the novelist is being critical of that culture.
The fall of the Berlin Wall meant that communist-style governments were no longer implied by the societies in which they operated.
The short sentences imply that she trusts you'll keep it short and sweet.
The main thing that implies is that there are no sharp boundaries between race and culture, even today.
Joseph Addison implies that true courage stems from a rational judgment in his poem "The Campaign".
The primitive paintings in Lascaux imply a far greater artistic sophistication than was previously believed to exist at such an early date.
The questionnaire asked whether survey participants had ever neglected to intervene in an assault on a minor, or if they had ever unnecessarily tormented an animal.
The distinction between two- and four-legged animals implied that a kind of creature called a 'quadruped' presumably would have had four legs, and a creature called a 'bipeds' would, as the name suggests, have had
What is implied by the evidence on the ground is that Neanderthals had their own speculative blades and capable of fastening them to their weapons.
However, it was implied that high ranking politicians were prepared to rewrite the law to fit their needs.
The computer test requires human intellect in order to "help" the computer and hence imply that the human factor is important.
Most radical criminologists imply that crime can be explained directly by factors such as poverty, unemployment, faulty family backgrounds, poor education facilities and racial discrimination.
The historical evidence does not imply the theory is true; rather it gives crucial information about ancient Roman life.
The mayor claims that the central government is implying that he is not a dedicated civil servant.
The work of the above-mentioned writer implies that the middle classes are just as bad as the upper classes.
It implies that your professor is an elitist who doesn't think you're clever enough to learn new words.
The photographs imply that the two women have been in the water for a long time.
Mesolithic humans had not yet developed the skill of farming, so, they would have hunted for their food which implies that they were nomadic.
I don't think that's what the writer meant at all.
The nobleman assumed that my saying that he was right implied I would do what he wanted.
If primitivity implies simplicity, then primates are the most primitive of all mammals.
The pamphlet is entitled "Rights of Man" and implies that the King of England has no right to reign over the people.
The fact that a large portion of the legal and medical professions are women now presumably implies that you are more likely to encounter women doctors and lawyers than you might have fifty years ago.
Mr. Smith's somewhat odd personal habits imply that he is well off and has a nanny.
The proposal implies that you know the right people to accomplish this.
President Bush's relentless criticism of Baghdad implies that he believes war is inevitable.
Some art lovers say that "Cecilia,"
The English Civil War was a battle for control of the British government between the Parliament and King Charles I.
The new findings imply that there was only a small founding population of early humans that lived in the east African rift valleys spread to populate the world.
One of the main aims of the American Civil War was to end slavery; this aim "implied" that there were moral problems with it.
The geneticists' work implies that rather, all humans began in one place and then spread around the world.
It is no exaggeration to say that the system of electing politicians to represent us is one of the least democratic in the world.
The report calls the situation serious and implies that some patients might have died because of these prescribing patterns.
The fact that many of the countries in Eastern Europe are protesting against the enforcement of carbon emission laws implies that these countries have vastly different ideas about the environment than those in Western Europe.
Crossed with the lowland tarpan, the wild horse of Europe, and implying that all three were one species, he created a single line of horses.
The implications of this were far-reaching: not only would the economic foundations of aristocratic rule be destroyed, but an entire system of belief would also be undermined.
The book's Kindle edition also contains a short story "Think Different", copyrighted to O'Shea in 2006.
"We are here to provide jobs and economic implications for the town," he concluded.
The geneticist's final announcement are that the study implies that all humans living today are ultimately descended from a relatively small group of men and women who lived as recently as 4,000 years ago.
"It implies a severe storm outside," she added.
"The evidence we have gathered only implies that the process started here in the main city of the world. Other cities elsewhere may or may not share the similar symptoms,"
"It implies that governments should store food for hungry people."
"The New Miami Tornado also imply that several players could yet leave."
The fact that the Lord of Vampire could turn himself invisible was a mere implication from the beginning.
Those who imply that financial motives caused the research to be skewed are probably naive idealists.
I struggled to imply that my wife was in need if she read it.
The geneticists' work implies that modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
The purpose of the pamphlet, implying as it did that an Englishman is superior to a Frenchman, and the latter no better than a monkey, was obviously to stir up anti-French feeling.
The common assumption that better parents make better citizens implies that democracy will work in every country.
In the next decade, these included more popular revolts such as the Putney debates and the Declaration of the Levelers, and political moves by the Levellers and other members of the New Model Army.
The fact that there were no wild animals implied that people had already hunted all the animals out of existence.
Gandhi was implying that not all Europeans treated Indians with appropriate respect.
The example of the antagonism between the rich and poor is a theme that constantly implies a natural struggle for power and domination, as in Animal Farm.
Also, there was such a large variety of tools found at the site that it implies the existence of a well-organized search.
The theory that life on Earth was seeded from somewhere else in the universe implies that our planet's intelligent lifeforms weren't created by a divine being.
"The most obvious implication of this theory is that it explains why humans are seemingly so different from one another, despite sharing a common pool of instincts, which in other animals lead to more uniform behavior.
Could scarcely imply that it was "out of sight, out of mind."
The fact that there are no letters written by Jane Austen to her sister Cassandra for the year 1800 implies that both sisters suffered from some reticence in writing letters to each other.
The implication of the speed up in rate of change was that a huge environmental shift occurred just before this time.
Paleontologists can often draw certain conclusions about a creature's diet by the shape or size of its teeth, but these clues don't always imply that a creature consumed meat.
The suggestion that I was drunk at the wedding implies that I cannot hold my drink.
The actions of police and military units have been judged to be unconstitutional.
The fact that people are more inclined to listen to strangers than to friends when in need of advice implies that we don't know our friends as well as we think we do.
The fact that there is fossil evidence of human life on Earth for over a million years implies that if the earliest humans had similar brain capacities to us, then they would have had enough intelligence to "invent" technologies such as weapons.
One implication of this research is that the field of nutrition needs to redirect its efforts.
However, a solution which involved sorting the immigrants by race and sending the black Africans to Africa and the Asian/Indian people to their countries would be extremely impractical to enforce and would imply an acceptance of the concept of race which I personally reject.
The problem with implying that the two were related is that there wasn't very good evidence for it.
The priest's reluctance to meet him at such a time would necessarily imply that he had something to hide.
It implies that the signals are not random noise, but signs of intelligence.
Your statement implies that the government should take a more active role in regulating access to firearms.


#inadvertent

The term 'sea lion' was used inadvertently when the first stranded animals were discovered.
Nobody had realized that the main ingredient in the foam was present in such inadvertent. (not really sure what this means...
The march of the Allies on Paris was inadvertently stopped by a series of barricades erected by French union workers.
He wasn't an expert in historical European military architecture, but he was meticulous and thorough and he made several inadvertent discoveries while on the site.
Perhaps the most inadvertent of these discoveries was when you placed a metal ship in the water and learned that, when covered with a certain substance, it was capable of burning at great intensity without being extinguished.
During the McCarthy era, many Americans traveled to Asia either for business or on holiday.
The inadvertent spreading of the virus into Earth's atmosphere happened during a smallpox immunization program on an African island.
The eradication of a species would cause more harm to the environment, even if that species were endangered; for example, it could cause the extinction of another, or the spread of another to new areas could cause inadvertent harm to the new environment
While it was not their main purpose, the expeditions also inadvertently collected insects.
However, the experiments have had some unfortunate and sometimes tragic side effects, many of them inadvertent.
A discussion ensues. One student, John Woods, says that he doesn't think that either war was fought over the issue of slavery. You ask him to elaborate on why he says this.
Some of the brightest stars are red giants, although these are often created inadvertently by stars similar to our own.
No matter how hard it tried, the US military was unable to prevent the inadvertent killing of civilians in Somalia.
One major problem facing farmers in Poland was inadvertent cultivation of fields with GMO grains, which occurred when wind blew the seeds of one field into another.
In the meantime, illegal drugs continued to pour into the country and cause all sorts of social problems, most inadvertent.
Despite the fact that the expansion of the Roman Empire was inadvertent, it brought with it several new things and innovations to the surrounding areas.
The Irish Potato Famine of the 1840s was an inadvertent result of the industrial revolution in that smoke and other by-products from factories drifted over the potatoes and ruined them.
The accident was caused inadvertently by a fault in the plane's instrumentation.
However, the biggest killer, smallpox, was inadvertently spread by British soldiers who never encountered the disease before arrival in the New World.
‘Inadvertent' means accidental.
Stalin's proposal that the Soviet Union should leave the European war and instead help start a Pan-Asian one in Asia was, ironically, criticized for exactly that reason by his rivals in the Kremlin.
Although most of the city's sanitation and sewerage systems escaped destruction, the inadvertent release of a large quantity of scented waste into the river from a nearby dye works downstream led to an alarming increase in the number of fatalities caused by suffocation
Lifting sanctions would have great positive effects, but the inadvertent effect might be that Iraq then uses its regained economic power to re-militarize.
During the pre-scientific age of exploration, the inadvertent introduction of a foreign species usually had limited consequences and in some cases were even beneficial.
If you are inadvertently scanning for ID-10-Ts, the main threat to humans, then that might explain why you have not found any yet.
His first two goals were inadvertent, causing England to lose to Germany and Argentina.
The use of the herbicide, atrazine, has been linked to an increase in incidents of hermaphrodites in several animal species.
The treaty also called for the dismantling of the nuclear reactors, the return of all military bases in Iraq, and the return of refugees to their homes, inside and outside of Iraq.
The British government received a lot of inadvertent help from the media, which preferred to report the more exciting events taking place.
Due to the inadvertent transportation of various pests that were not originally native to North America, life for the Native Americans was made much harder.
Her career ended somewhat ironically due to inadvertently offending the French ambassador to England.
During World War I, factory machinery ran at full capacity, and in some cases factories had to work around the clock (working around the clock) to produce supplies and munitions for the war effort.
However, no sooner had the fighting stopped than peasants in Britanny began to complain about "inadvertent" taxes.
However, the decision to grow wheat in North America had inadvertently devastating effect on Native American tribes.
Sadly, one of the side effects of the drugs that are used to prevent infection is inadvertent damage to the brain.
He was blameless in all this; he went to Iraq in as an inadvertent hostage, or a pawn, of the US government.
In fact the 'inadvertent' nature of some technological leaps forward has often made them all the more dramatic.
The writer couldn't believe that she had made such an inadvertent but gigantic mistake.
One of the most important examples of the concept of historical irony is the extinction of the megafauna in Australia as a result of sealing and whaling. The people of Australia killed the animals inadvertently while trying to preserve them.
It was only later, with the creation of the cruise missile and the atom bomb, that these effects became not just inadvertent but deliberate.
He was part of the scientific establishment, the creator of the first bioengineered animal and a member of the club that had made the fateful decision to initiate Project Leopard.
The growth of trade in the early modern period inadvertently led to the spread of diseases.
No one can say for certain whether the temporary loss of radar capability resulted from an inadvertent mistake by a technician or from sabotage.
He says that inadvertent touching in many forms has been part of these gatherings for years, and that he did not mean to give offense by it.
Chernobyl also had an inadvertent effect on society since the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe is blamed in part on the government's lying and covering up the effects of the disaster.
The law only resulted in inadvertent encouragement of religious warfare because it did not properly disestablish the Anglican Church.
In addition to the problems, the attack created an inadvertent incentive for the terrorists' sympathizers.
The destruction of the black communities was an inadvertent consequence of the urban renewal project.
She claimed the deaths were inadvertent, and later agreed to less dangerous experiments.
Although the decision to drop the atomic bomb on Hiroshima was the right one, it must be admitted that it was an inadvertent bombing because the pilot of the plane had taken the wrong course.
The inadvertent alteration of the protein caused it to become extinct after only a few thousand years.
The fact that they had burned their bridges made the Germans' victory in war inevitable, as with no hope of outside help, the innocents caught in the middle were forced to submit to what ever political or social dictates were implemented by the German high
Inadvertently, the treatment was directly responsible for a small but significant decrease in test subjects' intelligence and general health.
The increase in population was an inadvertent side effect of industrialization.
The inadvertent side effect of this arrangement was that the rich became richer and the poor became poorer.
However, the main reason for the police's inadvertent assistance of this counter-movement came when they decided to attack the radical groups.
The inadvertent creation of this deadly pathogen might have been avoided if the biologists had taken even the most elementary precautions in their research.
"The inadvertent cross-breeding between the olive and the yellow rubber cutouts has been a long-standing problem for those who study the species."
The new tax regulations, while well-intentioned, created the inadvertent effect of closing down several charities.
There were lots of books, so I got a chair to reach them, but because the books were all science related and I was short, I couldn't judge which book would be good to reach for; so, inevitably, I accidentally knocked over
The inadvertent destruction of these large Greek temples was a major loss for future generations.
Professor Smith's carelessness was inadvertent; he is in fact quite a careful man.
One of the best things about him is his inadvertent ability to always make me laugh.
The common cold is an example of an inadvertent change in the environment that could cause population collapse.
The most blatant case of the U.S government leaving a door inadvertently open to would-be terrorists was on September 11th, when it shut down the security cameras at airports for which it had videotape.
Although the official reports on the bombing make no mention of his whereabouts at the time of the attack, unofficial sources have claimed that at the time of the attack, Karzai was moved out of his official residence for inadvertent security reasons.
The first detonation of an atomic bomb was confined to a testing range in New Mexico. It was inadvertent.
Eventually, these inadvertent actions would lead to the extinction of the human race.
Over the years of my research, I have come to inadvertently sample pneumonia.
Any good grades the student might have gotten in high school would have been done by inadvertent plagiarism, since he never really learned anything.
The accidental release of methane and ammonia on the planet eventually led to the extinction of all life on it, some of it through inadvertent combustion caused by the exploding debris.
He had no idea that it would have such an inadvertent effect; he thought it would just scare the wife
In an interview with The Observer newspaper he said the inadvertent killing of Afghan civilians by British troops risked turning moderates against the coalition forces and driving them into the hands of the Taliban.
"Inadvertent complexity" is an idea he had about how and why life became so complex on this planet.
Many unintended side effects of the drugs were found, including birth defects and unpredictable contagions
This is because the water in the upper atmosphere creates lightning and thunder that can cause inadvertent heat damage.
The inadvertent switching on of a nuclear reactor while repairing it can have very serious consequences.
During the riots, few of the National Guard were eager to shoot their fellow Frenchmen, and those who did found that their guns, loaded with bullets known to be effective against peasants, were miraculously turning around and inadvertantly killing them.
"Over the centuries, unintended negative consequences of planned infrastructure projects have included flooding, soil erosion, deforestation, desertification and the decline of endangered species", she says.
He also made some inadvertent additions to the text while he was trying to correct his mistakes.
Hoover strongly believed that acceptance of surplus farm produce was a form of subsidy, which infringed on "laissez-faire" principles and harmed businessmen by inadvertently protecting their competitors.
Berg argued that the bomb would cause mass starvation of a sort never before seen.
While the regulation of working conditions in mines is the most obvious example of an important issue that miffed radicals and provoked them to strike, the major cause of the strikes was inadvertent.
During the break in shooting, he met and fell in love with actress Ruth Mackenzie while shooting on location for "A Farewell to Arms", and married her shortly thereafter, on May 29, 1928.
The flooding had caused some of the waste from the tanneries to flow into the river creating an inadvertent poison.
However, the team's inadvertent destruction of the Old Bridge had given the enemy an opening.
Many of the obstacles that human rights face are more inadvertent, arising from misperceptions and misunderstandings.
The inadvertent poisoning of Lake Mungo has led to a bushland area known as the Jade Pond.
The dropping of the atom bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki had largely been done not out of military necessity but instead were largely inadvertent.
As the world slid towards war, the expedition enjoyed the inadvertent protection of both governments.
In the same way, many social policies have had an inadvertent effect of increasing rather than decreasing inequality.
The failure to provide an adequate medical response to the 1918 influenza epidemic, which was the result of human error, and probably due to fatigue was one of the most inadvertent and unfortunate consequences of World War I.
Some of the changes resulting from industrialization were probably not envisioned or desired by the factory owners, but were an inadvertent consequence of their desire to make money.
"The belief that species are immutable and do not develop over time has a long history in
The slave owners' discovery of the bitter taste of the roots, and the inadvertent communication of this fact to their slaves, soon put an end to the use of this labour-saving device.
The actions of the prospectors had an inadvertent effect of destroying the traditional way of life for the local Indians and upsetting the physical environment.
However, the bombing had completely unintended consequences: It not only killed al-Zawahiri, who was not even there, but it ultimately paved the way for future Al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden.
While there was no evidence of any other inadvertent spills at the site, there was extensive evidence that the toxic oils had contaminated the surrounding soil.


#incisive

His incisive writings on the class structure of the Victorian era have preserved his intellectual vigor.
The king was a weak and ineffectual ruler who left all the important decisions to his advisors, he lacked the courage or decisiveness to make anything incisive, let alone revolutionary changes.
Her incisive essays on the impact of television on modern society were widely praised.
Professor: The team of researchers has produced an incisive and long-lasting solution to a problem which had defied previous efforts.
A design that is both simple and elegant has an economy and an incisiveness that appeals to the user's intellect, perhaps even to the subconscious level.
The law of armed conflict is a set of restrictions that seek to turn war into a less inhuman activity by imposing limitations on what can be done to people in warfare.
The book's argument is not without its flaws but it made a series of incisive critiques against long-held beliefs in classical history.
His joke about my interpretation of the French Revolution was very incisive.
"An Inconvenient Truth" was an incisive, beautifully presented movie.
He liked to comment on the newspapers with some incisive remarks about politicians.
His incisive contemporary descriptions of colonialism's evils and economic dominance still ring true today.
The analyses of the economists were often both rigorous and incisive
As an editor and writer, he was known for his incisive wit.
He was not an overly incisive thinker; his great success, he admitted himself, was due to common sense and an ability to get on with people.
In the course of two short essays, Charles Dickens was able to provide evidence and arguments against child labor in factories.
"Great!" she says after a couple minutes.
The historian's incisive questions completely unraveled the logic of the politician's argument.
However, the real importance of the book is its use of an incisive and analytical examination of numerous events in Russian history.
The academics were impressed by Ian's incisive questions.
Although not as incisive as his mentor, during this time he developed an important school of thought within psychology.
His incisive and well-informed analysis of the situation make him a fearsome opponent in debate.
An incisive argument is one that is both logical and relevant.
The writers of the Federalist Papers used an incisive and persuasive argument.
The poet's brilliant and incisive language paints a vivid picture of a soldier's life during the Civil War.
In his incisive analysis Charles stated that George's criticisms were groundless and simplistic.
In his incisive critique of the theory, Professor Jones remarks that the argument is not logical.
Shelley's "Ozymandias"
The writers created some of the most incisive social commentaries in the history of English literature.
It was the argument of the philosopher John Searle that there are limits to what computers can do, and that the ability to have subjective experiences is an "illogicality" that cannot ever be emulated by a computer.
The New Imperialism was economically incisive, as the products of Africa and Asia were in demand in Europe.
The main reason the king seems to have had such confidence in his religious ministers and his Catholic policies was that they were so successful in convincing the public that they were right.
He thought the painting was superb although admittedly he was not very familiar with pre-raphaelite art, even though he made a point of studying it for incisive comments that he might have to make at the conference.
The politician's remarks were incisive and she was applauded for her observations.
The irony of the situation is that for all his insight and incisiveness, Smith doesn't actually do very well in his own academic career.
The book is full of incisive and often surprising analysis of the causes behind the Iraq War.
Dr. King's speeches and writings were incisive, clear and effective; he was admired by people of all races, and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964.
It was only in the eighteenth century that scienctists were able to make their theories more precise and their observations more incisive.
Just as 19th-century writers such as Dickens and Hugo wrote novels about the lives of the people in the societies they lived in, so too did African-American artists begin to produce works that depict the challenges faced by black people in an inc
After the battle of Hastings in 1066, William the Conqueror brought with him an army of Norman knights who brought with them the chivalric code of behavior known as courtly love that originated from the ancient Greeks and has endured until modern times
A classic example of a development in the opposite direction was the decline of slavery; every incisive critic of slavery was arguing against a social institution that had been taken for granted by everyone else.
Its incisive examination of the human condition has proven very influential on writers, not only in science fiction.
Some of the most incisive critiques of Marxist theory came from within Marxism itself.
Professor: In "The Medici: Power and Beauty", his newest work,
Professor Wills brilliantly shows how the arts and particularly
The decisions are very difficult due to their incisive nature.
The legacy of the men of the Enlightenment, such as Thomas Jefferson, was to create a vision of the future that was both exciting and optimistic.
You thank the professor and exit his office. You now have access to the research database, which can be found in the library.
Jane was incisive today in class when she said that although people's social status doesn't determine all their views, it certainly has an influence on them.
The writer was an incisive cultural observer as well as a stylish
William Wordsworth, whose poems in Lyrical ballads influenced a whole generation of poets, not only in Britain but also all over Europe was the most incisive poet of his times
The most incisive of Bismarck's numerous critics was a young German Catholic aristocrat and conservative, Count von Spreti.
He developed an incisive understanding of Latin American culture and was obviously dedicated to helping people.
The historian's analysis of the political situation in the mid-1930s was so incisive that it is still studied by students of history.
The ruthlessness and incisiveness of his arguments have put many people offside over the years.
The king's speeches were filled with invective and sarcasm, but lacked the thrust and incisive analysis that comes from true eloquence.
Darwin's theory of evolution was an incisive challenge to the theory of 'special creationism' in which each species was created by God.
"The present incisive capacity of most human children, it is to be added, does not remain long enough active to make its loss, when it ceases, sufficiently missed".
"This is what I call an incisive question,"
The most incisive of these studies was the 1975 paper written by an economist called Garret Hardin, who is usually described as a Malthusian.
"I try to be fair, and I think it's incisive to bring in comparisons between groups," said Professor Fish.
The incisive power of the will, usually in a psychological rather than physical sense; determination.
The most incisive thinkers of the age examined the evidence provided by these new theories and accepted them.
His incisive questions at the press conference showed he really had thought deeply about the issues involved.
The fact that the media has not, on the whole, been very incisive in its criticism of the crisis shows that it is, in many ways, not much better than a cheerleader for our disastrous forex trading.
His incisive comment that the plan was "half-baked" caused some to rethink their position.
The philosopher was a strong advocate of applying an incisive stare to question all knowledge and common assumptions.
The "Einaid" were an ancient race of people who lived on the island now known as Britain before it became cut off from the European mainland by rising sea levels.
He was considered a man of great political incisiveness.
The most famous example is the theory of nuclear fission being used to create an atomic bomb which was developed by the Hungarian physicist, Albert Einstein, in 1939.
"The purpose of the book is to explain how an understanding of Greek history is essential for an understanding incisive thought about human societies."
Those thinkers who had a great influence on Europe in the eighteenth century were less empiricist than Francis Bacon, and more interested in using logic to analyze arguments than Descartes, who provided the most incisive philosophical method.
The success of The Wealth of Nations is due at least in part to its incisiveness in its analysis of human behavior.
The historian E.P. Thompson wrote with great incisiveness about eighteenth-century England in "The Making of the English Working Class."
The rise of the religious right in the 1980s had a great deal of support from the government and was an attempt to get the American people as a whole, regardless of their individual political opinions, to believe that there are certain values that are inc
Thomas Paine's "Rights of Man" is a pioneering work in political incisive criticism of monarchial government.
The major flaw in this argument is not that it ignores the issue of external aid, which should indeed not be underestimated, but that it fails to see the deeper incisive criticism that can be directed at it.
While the progressive school thus let the child - especially the infirm or retarded child - "stay in the nest" for too long, the industrial school practiced a strict and incisive separation from the family and home for children.
Her incisive articles on free market economies made her a star economist.
Little is known of the private life of Sir Isaac Newton, one of the greatest mathematicians and physicists of all time.
Supreme Court decisions can be made on the basis of a close reading of legislative history, an incisive analysis of previous case law, or a simple intuitive understanding of what the words themselves mean.
The first were the Impressionists, who wanted to create art which represented their own perception of the world and was free from traditional European conventions.
The success of the Nazis in the 1930s and 1940s is as much a product of their economic policies as their rabid nationalism and anti-semitism; it was not an irrational fanaticism that led Germany to pursue territorial expansion and genocide.
The Royal Air Force (RAF) was given an incisive and critical blow, with the destruction of two of its most important defense mechanisms: the air fields from which it fought and the factories in which its weaponry was built.
The play's most incisive moment comes when the two central characters talk about a possible date for dinner.
His incisive political and military intellect enabled him to carve out a vast empire in India.
The logic of the situation was incisive and clear to me.
The classic view of warfare involves engagements between relatively large armies, with generals attempting to gain the advantage through tactics, strategy and technology.
He didn't realise the importance of this idea, and his numerous writings are a mass of incisive but half-baked theories.
But all in all, he was not one of the more incisive thinkers of his time.
The first atomic bomb was dropped on the Japanese city of Hiroshima; the attack immediately killed between 90,000 and 166,000 people, and incised thousands more.
The devastating effect of the Spanish incursion in South America led the Aztec and Incas to believe that they were perhaps dealing with supernatural forces rather than another human army.
But the effect on the reader is a kind of intellectual shock or incision, a sudden awakening to a greater reality.
Your incisive mind is the result of the patterns it can find and create in everything you see, hear, read or experience.
The main legacy of the movement was to change the way history was written, making it more incisive.
In a revolutionary move, Lister developed a 'control' for his experiments to ensure accurate results. He would have made an incisive addition to your team.
It is an incisive and revealing portrait of a complex man whose psychological torments drove him to create some of the most sublime music in the concert repertoire.
Although the book is well-researched and written with grace, Levin is too 'dumbed down' in places, rendering it an easy read, and at other times far too 'incisive', leaving the reader awestruck


#incomprehensible

An example of a situation in which language would be an important, and perhaps the most important, element would be the chaos that would ensue if all languages were suddenly wiped out by some inexplicable event.
Nurol's writings, almost 60 years after his death, are largely incomprehensible.
Even the most intelligent of creatures could not possibly hope to comprehend the sheer mind-bending insanity that is Madness, for it lies beyond the realm of mortals.
The process of getting the information off the computer disks was a painstaking process and many documents were in a foreign language, making their contents mostly incomprehensible.
The 16th-century Florentine writer Niccolò Machiavelli's books are considered to be the first in political science. His works were widely read, translated and had an enormous influence on political thought throughout Europe.
The Manuscript Found in Saragossa is a short novel that tells the tale of a man and his merry band of soldiers who fight the hordes of Satan in the mountains of Spain.
Military historians have blamed treacherous leadership and an impossible to comprehend chain of command for the disastrous French defeat.
Some people found the idea of a map of meaning incomprehensible.
The runes on the sword are written in an incomprehensible language that no one can read.
"The lawyer's jargon was incomprehensible to the foreigner which, of course, was precisely the point."
The medieval flagellants were a group whose practice of scourging themselves in the belief that this would atone for their sins was long held to be a barbarous superstition and incomprehensible to their fellow Christians.
Even after two centuries, his contemporaries found his theories incomprehensible when they were first published.
But historians doubt the accuracy of the report because of its incomprehensible terminology.
The "General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money" is a book by John Maynard Keynes that attempts to explain the Great Depression using his own economic theories. The theories were considered by some to be overly complex and difficult to comprehend.
He fell in love with the opera at an early age, a relatively incomprehensible activity for someone of his economic and social standing at the time.
Some of the debates presented in the thesis are highly complex and almost incomprehensible to any but a mathematician.
Most of the paintings in this room are of mythological subjects, scenes from the great operas, or allegories- all perfectly comprehensible.
Exacerbating the problem was the incomprehensible language of the European treaties, which required Byzantium to immediately surrender all imperial land in Italy if it defaulted on any payment, which it certainly couldn't do.
The theories of quantum mechanics, which try to explain the behavior of matter at the molecular or atomic level, are incomprehensible to anyone who hasn't had a certain level of college physics.
Some of the works of art that we haven't been able to understand, such as the ones created by the so-called crypto-language of 15th-century Italy.
The first English settlers in the New World wanted to exploit Native American labour for their own benefit, and so they subjugated the tribes by conquest.
I'm sorry but I speak only English and a smattering of German, French and Latin so I don't understand the question you just asked me in incomprehensible gutteral sounds.
Some have suggested that in the Middle Ages the Church deliberately presented medieval English Christmas folklore as a version of an earlier Geoffrey Chaucer story about a Jack who arrives at the house of a doctor, in order to insert Christian themes into what had become an
The decision to change the US Constitution is incomprehensible to me.
Postmodernist authors often wrote in a frequently incomprehensible style.
The dense paragraphs of the philosopher's work are as incomprehensible to the average reader as they are important.
Although the ancient Greeks wrote novels, medieval writers did not attempt to write in the vernacular, and the length of these incompehensible manuscripts was exaggerated.
At 8.30pm, your eyes start to glaze over. At 8.35pm, you snap your laptop shut and check your phone for messages, realizing there aren't any.
Some of the artist's success is due to his use of very basic shapes and colours, which means that the pictures are fairly comprehensible to even the most tone-deaf of preschoolers.
Some essential oils have power to cure diseases like cancer; it's not very well comprehended why this is the case
The book includes passages that describe the movements of armies in a way incomprehensible to anyone but the author.
He spoke to the class for hours in a language that was mostly
The archeologist could not make the symbols that he found on the bones translucent but the writing was incomprehensible to others.
Iain's lecture on the causes of the First World War was almost instantly incomprehensible.
Fuchs' cryptic language, which the FBI found incomprehensible, was in fact a simplified version of a technical coding system.
Samuel Beckett's later works, such as "Incomprehensible", are written in the same style.
It was, without doubt, the most incomprehensible discovery of the twentieth century that human beings possess only 46 chromosomes, as opposed to 48 in other mammals.
It was not until Boltzmann's death in 1896 that his ideas became widely accepted, and by that time they had been so
One of the effects of the war was a great disillusionment with politics and a sense that decisions about the nation's fate had been handed over to incomprehensible forces.
You: You wish you hadn't asked that...
The powerful, vibrant and incomprehensible language of the ancient texts is written in a style that was popular at the end of the classical period in literature.
"Unintelligible" means not capable of being interpreted, incomprehensible.
The problem with the textbook was the fact that it had a number of concepts in it which, while probably comprehensible to the professor who wrote them, were largely incomprehensible to the students.
Some sentences from the writings of William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg are quite incomprehensible, even to those who studied their work intently.
Hebrew poetry has always been highly regarded, but few Westerners can read it fluently, much less understand the intricate allusions and subtle references to events and characters in the Old Testament.
Incomprehensible to our understanding, Norse society preserved many of these concepts such as social hierarchy and ruling classes.
However, it was incomprehensible to them that he should be able to cause anything to come into being simply by speaking a few words.
From the moment I opened the box until the moment I shut it again the faint hum had ceased, and when at last I lifted up the box the silence smote my ears with a clarity almost incomprehensible after the previous intrusion.
The new painting by Kienholz was incomprehensible when it was first exhibited in the late sixties.
"The logic behind their reasoning was at times incomprehensible even to the other scientists."
"The French constitution…is so difficult to comprehend that it requires not only the most thorough knowledge of law but also a degree in philosophy and experience to understand it,"
Ian MacKinnon's writing style was usually clear and comprehensible, yet occasionally it became incomprehensible.
Because of the incomprehensible enormity of the crime, and fear the Germans might produce poison gas weapons in massive quantities, it was decided to retaliate with equal vigor.
"The study of language was never a part of my university course in the way you ask your questions," Mr.Goldman says in his slightly incomprehensible way.
Some of the ritual chants are written in an ancient language, and some of the symbols in the book are incomprehensible.
The texts in the Voynich manuscript are written in an incomprehensible language.
I don't think you'll ever succeed in writing with a completely comprehensible style.
The various legal codes and court systems in different parts of the extensive Chinese Empire made it hard for the rulers to have a unified litigation system.
His ability to play the piano is a case of "insight", "comprehension" and "mastery" that are all the result of his years of dedicated practice.
In other words, it would not be entirely inappropriate to look at the history of the twentieth century as one of a series of blows to the midsection of Europe, beginning with World War One and continuing on with the rise of National Socialism and other
His later plays become increasingly incomprehensible as he seems to lose touch with reality.
The critical acclaim and popular following of the book surprised him; he did not expect his writing to be so well-received by so many people, and the attention it brought him was at first very hard for him to comprehend.
Professor: The task he set you was an exercise in special relativity and its suggested philosophical interpretation, the Theory of Relativity, which was understandable only to the top mathematicians of the time.
Do not fear that you will forget the language. Once you learn it, it is yours forever and instantly accessible at any time.
The presupposition of the contract is that the business could not be run without your contribution.
Although Chimen's writing is extremely difficult to comprehend, he had a reputation for brilliance at the time.
The strange symbols carved into the stone are as comprehensible to us as Linear A is to them.
In the following decades, the most complicated mathematical theories such as string and brane theory were developed in an effort to find a complete description for our universe.
The council members' discussion became incomprehensible when they started using technical terms that you were not familiar with.
The mathematics of chaos is so complex that its formulas and principles are often incomprehensible to anyone but the most adept mathematicians.
The criticisms by some doctors of hospital hygiene before the in comprehensible rise in diseases such as Tuberculosis and Cholera, is an example of how professional criticism can be informed and not be heeded.
To you, his ideas sounded incomprehensible and at times terrible.
Optimism is often incomprehensible to a pessimist, and visa versa.
Meanwhile, even the highly intelligent Europeans were unable to comprehend the hieroglyphics of the even more intelligent Egyptians.
"Some of the wall paintings are utterly incompreh
The instruction manual for the machine was written in Japanese, a language that was then still comprehensible to you.
The theory of relativity is incomprehensible to the layperson.
Relativity is a theory that is incomprehensible to the average person.
The strange symbols and images that appear incomprehensible without the assistance of the Rosetta stone are common to all Egyptian hieroglyphs.
However, the symbols themselves are frequently found to be incomprehensible when more than one historian looks at the same scroll.
The academics' discourse on the topic was so incomprehensible that few could understand it and even fewer were interested in doing so.
To most people the notes on his computer that led to the creation of the revolutionary language we use today are completely incomprehensible.
This technical jargon, often incomprehensible to most people, is typical of the language used by doctors writing in medical journals.
However, while the earlier stages of her development are easy to comprehend, as your child gets older it becomes harder because of the wide range of ways that children develop and express their personality.
Telescopes were so expensive and large in the eighteenth century that the only ones who could afford them were kings or wealthy aristocrats.


#incorporate

And so my idea, which I have so far not mentioned to Agnes, is that I should go on this course and incorporate what I learn into our marriage.
Although we did incorporate many of their suggestions into the design, in the end we had to cut some of the original features in order to stay on schedule and under budget.
As far as the Native American tribes of the Great Plains were concerned, the Columbia River was a traditional boundary and they did not want to incorporate their lands to the west of this boundary.
For most people in the developed world, money is not an issue; it takes on symbolic value merely by being visible or incorporated into a gift.
The army was not incorporated into the federal government until after the Civil War.
After the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648) the citizens of the Holy Roman Empire no longer incorporated rural and urban defense in their local strategies.
Because so many workers were unemployed during the Great Depression, the US government passed laws to create new jobs for them, such as building bridges and roads.
Until the Age of Enlightenment, plague was incorporated within a system of beliefs and myths.
The main reason for the failure to incorporate the Native Americans into the United States was the conduct of the colonists themselves.
The word "incorporate" comes from the Latin incorporare, which means to make into one.
This policy would enable your state to incorporate more land from your enemies.
The second step is to incorporate the new results into the dynamic model of European population history.
As head of government, the prime minister must be a strong leader; as head of state, he must be nonpartisan and above party politics. To incorporate these divergent goals is no easy task.
Incorporate new information into the theory to explain the results of different techniques.
Another word search puzzle appears.
A Mayan calendar with the words on it appears.
Furthermore, the process of industrialization had incorporated large groups of peasants into the market economy.
It would be difficult to incorporate an activity like that into standard-issue teaching.
Incorporating these recommendations into our business plans will increase shareholder value.
Unsurprisingly, when the state assimilated the Church it didn't destroy it: it made it into a branch of itself, one which was to have considerable authority over religious doctrine.
The United Nations incorporated the Universal Declaration of Human Rights into a binding treaty.
The Anglo-Saxons incorporated many of the native English beliefs into their own faith, creating hundreds of werewolf stories in their literature.
Egalitarian societies can either be honorary, where everyone is "equal" in name only, or inclusive, where everyone is honored as equal.
Although most of the tribes incorporated into the Roman Empire did so willingly, some required a little more convincing than others.
The new government has pledged to uphold the constitution and incorporate democratic and human rights.
The conservative element, however, were determined to prevent the possibility of a political revolution by incorporating liberal ideas into their own ideology.
The late nineteenth century saw the incorporation of Latin America into the world market, a process called new imperialism.
The medieval Church incorporated many pagan rituals into Christianity to win over the population that practiced those ceremonies.
The nation needed to incorporate more of its citizens into decisive political processes.
Nevertheless, these advances in urbanization were to a degree incorporated in the traditional system of guilds and other organisations.
On the third day that we were there, our regiment was incorporated into a division and we were all very glad to get our first meal in the village.
In an attempt to incorporate more elements of human rights into the penal system, corrections officers were provided with more training.
The Louvre incorporates most of the buildings of the former royal palace.
A republic is a form of government in which the people, or some portion of them, elect a group of representatives who then elect a head of state and a head of government.
"The main problem with the approach that you propose is that the institutions will simply incorporate these measures into their current procedures, rather than changing their procedures."
Insisting on the importance of racial impurities in music, Hitler incorporated jazz influences into the N.S.B.
The Church of England incorporated lots of the rituals and traditions of the Catholic Church into their religion.
The influence of the Werkmeister School in incorporating existing architectural styles into their work can be seen throughout German city of Essen.
The industrialization process began in England for several reasons. One of these is the availability of different raw materials such as coal, iron ore and textile plants.
The colonists didn't want to incorporate the native people of North America into their system of government because they represented a completely different culture.
It is possible that the community will incorporate both techniques into their own set of rituals.
With the introduction of the water wheel, vast amounts of energy that had previously been flowing through the environment were now being harnessed to propel machinery and allow for industrialization.
While the government tries to incorporate all the changes the new society has undergone since the beginning of the revolution, sometimes, there are still isolated acts of violence.
Then the Green Party, which included Canadian Members of Parliament, incorporated many of these demands.
I can incorporate it into my work, but I don't have it in the budget to buy new furniture.
All scientific discoveries of the 20th century were in some way incorporated into the theory.
Of course, the main purpose of a constitution is to incorporate a set of rules within a country.
The Church was incorporated into the Western Roman Empire during the fourth century.
But they are incorporated into different areas of the brain and perform similar functions to their other brain components.
"It's all right you know," Tom says without turning around. "I won't incorporate that in the draft of the review."
The constant incorporation of new regions into the Roman Empire posed a lot of problems for the government.
Incorporating more fruits and vegetables into the diet is beneficial for one's health.
Ideas which appear to conflict or oppose others are incorporated into previously unrelated belief systems.
The mainly British group used what was called the "gift of air" and incorporated it into their ceremony at Stonehenge.
This scene is a vivid and memorable one that makes the element of incorporation at the very least understandable, even if it is not yet justifiable as a means to an end.
9. The English incorporated many ideas in the US constitution from earlier English constitutions.
The effect of the treaty of Versailles was to incorporate these new developments into the mainstream of Western thought.
He felt it was unnecessary to incorporate such historical items into the museum
The etymology of the word incorporate is incorporare, which in legal terms means to take a "pool" of money and give it a legal personality, or in other words to create a separate legal entity.
The government is currently having great difficulties in incorporating the newly acquired province.
The United States incorporated as a nation in the year 1776.
The new system incorporated many of the technological advances developed in the private sector.
The groups were incorporated into the two main states: the beys and the aghas into Ottoman and the royal princes, noblemen and ecclesiastics of their families had high positions under the Ottomans.
Critics argue that it is a mistake to incorporate a language that requires its own characters into an education system whose primary focus is English
This might explain why the Native Americans, the indigenous people who lived in that region, were unable to incorporate the new food source into their culture and died out.
But the growth of urban centers also incorporated many new workers, who were often learning to live in towns for the first time.
However, a system of property inheritance that incorporates both private and communal aspects has been endorsed by some.
The security forces tried to incorporate the latest scientific theory into the designs of their barrier.
She incorporated basic Christian doctrine into her writing and embroidery.
The English civil war, also known as the Wars of the Three Kingdoms, involved several distinct conflicts and changed England's political landscape.
Hegel incorporates the work of the ancient Greek philosopher, Aristotle, in an attempt to unite the ancient ideas with his more modern ideas of logic.
The expansion of manufacturing and trade brought about rapid industrialization and urbanization. During this time period, Britain incorporated the once-separate colonies of Canada, Australia, and India under the British crown.
The invention of the combustion engine incorporated the best qualities of both air and water vehicles.
They incorporated some basic principles required for the existence of any nation into a set of guidelines called the Pact of Umar.
The general population is by in large politically apathetic and so the council have been forced to incorporate the tribesmen into the standing armed forces.
The Confederacy refused to incorporate states, which caused the Civil War.
The superiority of the German weapons were such that it was considered justified to change the gunpowder-based ammunition.
The Marxist theory incorporated many of the ideas of Hegelianism.
The best way to incorporate these lessons in teaching is to let students do it and enjoy the activity.
One of the major problems facing British industry at the time Mr Johnson was Prime Minister was its difficulty in incorporating the new technology which was revolutionising manufacturing into its industrial structure.
Even the parliamentary system was incorporated into Japan by the United States after World War 2.
Incorporating more women in the military didn't become a hot topic until the 1970s.
"But if someone has religious objections to engaging in the process of incorporating orphans into families that are already economically stable we must respect their personal beliefs and not try to force them to engage in something that goes against their conscience,"
Luis Molina, a Spanish Jesuit priest strongly influenced by the ideas of Occam's Razor, defended a philosophical system called 'Pancritical Rationalism', which incorporated elements of both skepticism and nominalism into its viewpoint.
In other words, the ability to incorporate sounds from the languages we are exposed to as infants allows us tp acquire language more efficiently and more easily.
They used local materials when possible and adapted their buildings to fit the environment rather than import expensive materials or totally alter the landscape.
The Nicene Councils helped incorporate Hellenistic thought into Christian doctrine.
However, the democratic forms of these governments were too weak to incorporate such a large state into the empire.


#indicate

The Party official simply indicated that he would be willing to meet with me, his actions indicated a desire to discuss something of importance.
The presence of coal indicates the presence of trees, and if we find sequoias in a coal mine that would be very interesting.
The Earth is the only planet in our solar system that indicates signs of sustaining life.
Unfortunately the depth of the river was not indicated on the map the officers were using during the battle.
The first evidence that continents move, also indicated that the Earth was far older than 4004 BC, the date calculated from the Bible.
In the specific indication of the pancreas, a CT scan is more specific than an MRI.
These findings do not indicate whether the two groups separated for hundreds of thousands of years or whether they split much more recently, say within the past 50,000 years.
In the first years of the war, the advantage clearly indicates that the French and their allies will win.
The medical records indicate that you suffer from an overactive thyroid.
As indicated by the dramatic increase in the number and size of forts in that region, the country's military leaders thought an invasion was probable.
The 19th century indicates that there was a great increase in the use of wood as a building material.
In the first half of the eighteenth century death rates indicate that an average middle-class family could expect to lose between one and two children, usually to infectious diseases.
The development of strong unions indicates that workers in the early 21st century feel a vital need to band together to negotiate with their employers.
The rules of Latin grammar show how the language developed and indicate the basic principles of linguistic development in general.
The theory of plate tectonics indicates that the surface we stand on is on the surface of a huge solid (although very thick) shell called the lithosphere.
The officer, who was otherwise an exemplary soldier, had indicated on several occasions that he wasn't happy with his new orders.
The female profile indicates that she has Native American heritage.
The virus may indicate that a pandemic is possible but not certain.
The revelation that a papyrus fragment had been misidentified as containing a section of the Gospel of Mark when in reality it contained a separate gospel called 'of the Egyptians', indicated that the entire manuscript might need to be reassessed.
The burnout rate is higher in the IT industry than in most other industries, and that is an indication that they're overworked.
The rise of the novel in the 18th century indicates that the middle classes by the 19th century had an overwhelming desire to escape from their own realities.
However, the report doesn't indicate that the ingredient is dangerous in any way.
The fossil skull indicates that the "Homo Erectus" had a cranial capacity of around 1,200-1,500ml.
The fact that it had been raining hard for two weeks in the region indicated that the river had flooded.
The destruction of the majority of the Jewish ghettos in World War II indicates a serious failing on the part of the Nazis.
The discovery of the Rosetta stone finally indicated that hieroglyphs used phonetic as well as semantic elements.
A positive indication of this was the huge gap between classes that emerged in these societies.
The existence of a large population of humans in the Americas during the Ice Age indicates that humans did not require intensive agriculture to survive.
However, taking it orally does not indicate its effectiveness.
It is not clear what the geneticists' research indicates, and therefore it is difficult to form an opinion regarding its importance to the fields of biology and genetics.
The weather in the western United States has been indicated to play a role in sharp increases in crime.
The most obvious indication that the Aztecs were a powerful civilization is their pyramids.
In general, the early humans of 150,000 years ago did not differ much in their morphology from modern humans. They did, however, indicate an intellectual capacity inferior to that of present-day people.
However, there are also indications that the dog may have been an important animal for hunting.
The violent crime rate among juvenile delinquents in the United States indicates that there is a strong relationship between drug abuse and criminal activity.
It indicates that the state and time period were a matter of great importance in who won the war.
Some of them indicate the first Britons were dark-skinned and had African genetic markers, other skeletons found in Britain from around the same period indicate the first people here were blond and blue-eyed and other geneticists say there is no evidence at all
The large number of dead fish indicated that the river was contaminated.
But from the early 21st century on, a number of economists began to indicate that this era may have reached its zenith in terms of productive capacity.
The fact that the university only fell into action after the community complained to the government indicates that it did have a certain amount of responsibility for the student truants.
The heat had gone beyond indicating an em
The books indicate that Dona Rodriguez, a midwife, lived in the house in 1616.
Pinker cites several experiments which indicate that reading in fact strengthens existing knowledge.
"See United States of Europe."
The recent increase in sunspot activity indicates that the sun is, on the contrary, at the peak of its life cycle and will soon enter a period of decay.
Convection currents indicate that the horizontal temperature gradient is larger than the vertical temperature gradient.
It indicates a move away from your postmodern stance and towards more "classic" historical writing.
The state was undergoing a process of depopulation, indicating that it was no longer an efficient form of social organization
The fact that the mutations in fact occurred during the 20th century clearly indicates that the populations in question must have experienced a hiatus in their development at some point within the past few hundred years.
In the 1890s, the United States entered a serious economic depression, known as the Panic of 1893, which was accompanied by an agricultural depression. These economic problems indicated that a modernization of the American economy was necessary.
This would indicate that these children received at least a few years of formal schooling.
One would expect that during the years of the woman's confinement she received many gifts, such as fine clothes and jewelry, which would indicate that she belonged to a wealthy family.
However, ice core samples indicate that the earth's climate naturally fluctuates between cool periods and warm periods.
Differences in the percentage of genetic markers indicated that all three skeletons were unrelated.
During cross-examination, the prosecution indicated that it intended to call a number of witnesses who had seen the defendant at the scene of the crime.
It is a primary function of the nervous system to indicate to the rest of the body what is going on in the environment.
The stock market crash of 1929 is widely considered to be the event that triggered the Great Depression.
The temperature indicator on the dashboard of my car indicated that it was working properly.
The content of my lecture indicates that I believe there is a direct link between the collapse of the Inca civilization and a disease epidemic.
Although the results indicated that the chances of the geneticists' theory being right were very high, there was still a possibility, however small, that they could be wrong.
There is some indication that the decline of guest work in developing nations might be accompanied by an increase in unemployment rates.
It is not certain how the fire began or at what time during the night it was set, but the arson has been ruled out as an accidental cause.
However, not all men who support patriarchy are in favor of dictatorship.
The music of this period indicates that the people of the time had a great love of music.
Furthermore, modern concepts of human rights indicate that all people are intrinsically equal.
The most widely used measure of infant mortality is the infant mortality rate (IMR).
Although no one factor can indicate if a country will have an outbreak, some patterns have emerged from the research.
The extreme dryness of the water and its low temperature indicate that this is water from a cave, rather than, say, a stream.
He could see from her thick prescription that she had given him several high-powered magazines in the past, indicating that his eyesight was quite poor.
These differences indicate that the Egyptian civilization probably became extinct, to be replaced by a new civilization with different inhabitants and beliefs and located in a different part of the country.
However, the only evidence that indicates he was involved in the writing of any of these plays is the word of his accusers, which has been shown to be dubious at best.
The fact that the FBI indicated there was an increase in Rottweiler attacks in the Bureau's annual crime report last year doesn't necessarily mean that Rottweilers are getting more dangerous, the National Canine Association said today.
The position and condition of the stars and planets at the time of birth have often been held to indicate a person's future.
The fact that Elizabethan England witnessed spectacular and rapid growth in many fields of culture and the economy, combined with Elizabeth's aggressive foreign-policy initiatives, would tend to indicate that her belief in her own divine right to rule was well-
Either you have done the work properly or you haven't: if you haven't, indicate that clearly now by saying you refuse to take this final.
The destruction of the library indicates that the city was attacked, rather than suffering a natural disaster.
It is evident that the main problem with the computer network has been fixed, although there are still some minor problems that need to be addressed.
Eating with your hands is still the norm in many parts of Africa, indicating a history of poverty and a lack of tableware.
A study of the mathematical laws that indicate human behavior has been tried in many areas.
The statement by the World Bank indicates they're unlikely to approve new loans to the nation unless a steady repayment record is established.
Cave paintings indicate that early humans were superstitious at an early stage in their development.
It would have indicated a cross, and it did so indicate if we interpret the child's babbling charitably. The probability that this was what was actually perceived is high.
While most of these examples indicate that the period was a time of rising prosperity and relative peace in Europe, there were exceptions,
A change in policy is indicated by changes in the curriculum
Research on brain activity indicates that subjects are still able to identify images displayed to them in mere milliseconds.
The movement of native Americans from their ancestral lands some 4,000 years before the present indicated that they probably had no knowledge of horsemanship.
Vera has indicated that she believes this new project will be the most efficient use of her time.
Furthermore, the rocks in the mountain range indicated that it had been recently formed.
A recent study indicates that more than four billion tons of water are disappearing from the Pacific Ocean each year.
The findings of the archaeological dig indicated that humans were inhabiting the region as early as ten thousand years ago.
Renaissance Trends


#infer

You look at your watch and see that it's time to go home
The program drew the inference from her use of the word "initiate" that she was talking about warfare.
The professor gives you another set of sentences.
The new code enabled the computer to make certain inferences about the meaning of different sorts of words.
The inorganic compounds in our lab are stored in the marked glass containers.
You can't see his face, and you can't guess his age or race, but there is something about his voice that tells you he is smiling.
They defend their conclusions by inferring that both the logical structure of language and its connection to conceptualization is not uniform.
The finding, if confirmed, would shed light not only on our own human origins but also on some of the major cultural movements of ancient civilizations such as the Ancient Egyptians and the Aztecs.
"What the hell is t
Paleontologists can't demonstrate empirically that any of this happened the way they think it did, and in fact there are many gaps in the fossil record which imply that some other mechanism is responsible.
All of this information can be used to infer what their society was like.
If we couldn't travel to the moon, what chance do we have of inferring what lies on the far side of it?
The size of the German military forces could only be guessed at, but the inference was that they were numerous and prepared for all eventualities.
All things considered, the rise of women in the 19th century to more active and influential roles in industry, education and politics can be best interpreted as bringing women into a closer relationship with men in the family and in society as a whole.
"You can't infer his conclusion from his evidence," she said.
"None" is an example of a verb that takes "infer" as its prefix.
The theory that early humans moved out of Africa in relatively small groups, almost forty thousand years ago, and then gradually spread across the globe is known as the 'bottleneck theory'.
It would be possible to argue that the increase in mediaeval pilgrims resulted in the growth of permanent settlements in order to sustain the extra large number of travellers.
It would be impossible to determine whether the decline in deaths from natural disasters is an indication that they're becoming less common or that governments are doing a better job of curbing them.
The next few lectures will cover reading and inferential comprehension questions.
The fact that the borax deposits occur in a regular pattern suggests that
The data from the Scripps study suggest that it is not correct to infer, as many scholars have, that ancient Jewish women were passive participants in marriage.
The small rooms, in which many dead bodies seem to have been hidden, can only be reached through tiny passages, making the use of loud machinery or vehicles dangerous or even impossible.
The findings of the research team, which was published in the Journal of Biological Chemistry, suggest that doctors may eventually be able to treat many degenerative diseases by infering a patient's genetic make-up.
You don't know. You can't make heads or tails of this inference.
The correct inference is that there are at least two minds in the skull.
From this evidence, the expert inferred that the caveman had been carrying a full load of heavy belongings at the time of the attack and was probably returning from a trip to the river.
As with most scientific endeavors, each archeological find is used to make inferences about past cultures and events.
The initiative failed to achieve its goal of annual growth in the money supply of 3% "inferred" from the sentences before and after it.
The process of making conclusions through critical analysis, or reasoning, can be called inference.
Since we know the door is there, we can only infer that there must also be a room.
He could properly interpret what the sounds implied, but he could not say for sure what objects made them.
If we only knew a little more about the customs and culture of the ancient Britons, we might be able to "infer" the rest from that.
The process was a long and labored one, however, and much inference had to be made based on the evidence available.
They can also use the evidence to infer things about the lifestyle of humans hundreds of thousands of years ago.
You cannot "infer" anything from the absence of evidence: you can only say that you "do not" have evidence for something.
At this point, the phone starts ringing.
The work of the mathematician reveals the logical basis of science but it does not explain what he does primarily; he forms hypotheses.
The new evidence, if accepted, would tend to reinforce the conclusions of the Royal Commission report, implying that Mr. Smith was murdered by Miss Jones.
Professor: "The increase in heart attacks in the last few years is due to the increase in pollution levels in our cities," the Professor implies.
What they know, however, is that the position the bomber will probably try to escape to in Afghanistan after the attack will be a mountain redoubt where he will try to infer security.
Despite the evidence we can see with our eyes, it is difficult to infer what the past atmosphere was like from fossilized plants.
Most people infered that new technologies like the printing press had made it easier for people to read more.
He asked her if this meant that she was implying that she would only agree to his proposal if he bought her a house like that, and she said that that had been a little inference on her part.
Professor: They saw this ability of light to "reflect" or "infer" about its surroundings as a sign that it was conscious.
They inferred from this that the person who lived here must have been a very bad farmer because, according to them, the soil was too poor to grow crops on.
The reporter inferred from these facts that the council's reason for raising the taxes were definitely not financial.
The best way to infer how intelligent alien beings would behave is to see how intelligent mammals behave here on Earth.
But they also concluded that if humans were going to destroy the environment that sustains them, insects might "infer" that they needed to do it first.
Although the characters in Murasaki Shikubu's "The Tale of Genji" are aristocratic and cultured, they often rely on trickery to get their way.
The methodologies used by the psychologist are based on inference, not rigid fact.
You'll need more information to prove "who" brought about the downfall of "what" exactly.
The philosopher inferred from the symbols on the piece of paper that Jane had just then written a letter to her
From the work of other artists at the time, it is inferred that Bacon had a close relationship with some of the people involved with the Gunpowder Plot of 1605.
Hence it can be inferred that the huge trading ships of the Phoenicians must have used the stars to find their bearings at night.
The statement that most of the universe is made up of dark matter and that there might be other, undiscovered intelligent life in the universe can both be inferred from the evidence provided.
It had been so difficult to work out the genetic implications of the research that only now, weeks after finishing his first paper on the subject, were the full extent of Tom's conclusions sinking in.
It was an act of stupidity to attempt such a feat, but nonetheless you did not wish to imply that they were wimps.
The inference is that their owners had died in the nuclear explosion.
The conflict in the Near East between the Turks and the Israelis is even more confusing than those in Iraq and Afghanistan because superpowers like the United States have been involved there for decades, helping to create a web of alliances that would baffle anyone not
The process of deciphering the hieroglyphs was complicated by the fact that some of the signs are used as syllables, others are consonants and vowels, and still others are used to infer grammatical meanings.
All modern scholarship on the subject infers that the remains are those of the king.
Since the ancient Greeks, people have usually assumed that civilization first developed in southern Europe (Greek civilization), and gradually spread to northern Europe (Roman civilization).
One judge inferred from this that the accused must have been insane at that time.
It can be inferred that the most important duty of a government is to protect its people.
Sugden goes on to argue that under this theory the mind is merely "an abstract object, or as we might say nowadays, a virtual machine (that) can only operate on virtual objects".
Inference is the process of using existing information to either prove or disprove something.
Inference in English Law is defined as "where one, by certain circumstances, is required to carry his judgment beyond that which is immediately revealed to his senses".
It is wrong to infer from this information that Tom was a cruel boss.
He infers from this new evidence that many of the people living in England during the Ice Age were surprisingly dark-skinned for surviving in such a cold climate.
He was forced to draw a very logical, and in a way correct, inference from the evidence.
The new findings will allow scientists to draw more detailed conclusions about how light skin pigmentation developed in Europeans, and what this tells us about the evolution of human cultures.
It would be wrong to infer that there is no scientific support for such theories.
It is wrong to infer from etymology that all Germans are inveterate linguists.
Furthermore, the authors go on to imply that this has implications on treatment of women in the modern world.
They meant no offence; they were only inferring that you might be the victim of child neglect.
The placement of the sun at the centre of the universe implied a belief that mankind, too, was at the centre of God's creation.
From this I can infer that when students have to learn essays by rote, they forget them quickly and don't understand the ideas underlying the facts.
Inference is a logic game in which each player is given different information and tries to deduce what conclusion can be drawn.
If the sun were to suddenly disappear, we could still infer its existence from the way objects in the sky continued to orbit around us.
While we have no written records from the time of the pharaohs, many scientists have tried to infer things from the statues and paintings they have left behind.
Peasants tried to infer what the inhabitants of the castle were like by looking at things like their clothing, handkerchiefs and napkins.
But one can also infer from the evidence discovered so far that modern humans existed for tens of thousands of years before then.
Making such inferences is a treacherous business.
It is possible to infer from this that in the case of language, the thinking part of the brain plays a greater role in determining our use of language than our capacity to speak.
There had been for several years a strong movement ties with sub-Saharan Africa and it is only when the first Bushmen skulls from Botswana were carefully measured that to their astonishment it transpired that their average cranial capacity was larger than
CHALK AND CHEESE
Consequently, according to the Java Man skullcap, the Peking Man skullcap and the Java Man femur,
Inference in legal terms is a supposition regarding real events that are not in themselves certain but which are suggested by evidence.


#inference

The title, "Bible" is Latin for "Good News", which is an inference you may draw from the contents.
It may be inferred from his statement that the captain's personality was probably not suited to working with a group of people.
I can't make it to your party, I'm afraid. I've made an inference from your statement that you won't be able to either.
The fact that a large number of English nobles seem to have been prepared to make an inference against the King in the House of Lords implies that they believed he was guilty.
The evidence suggests that the population of Britain was around 1 million in 40,000 BCE, and that of Ireland was about half a million at this point in time.
While the earliest Roman Christians were executed for their faith, by the fourth century Christianity had become legal in the Roman Empire.
The legal system does not allow the defendant to draw adverse inferences from the fact that the plaintiff has not called witnesses.
It is the job of the historian to make an informed inference about events that took place in the past, when there are gaps in the surviving evidence.
The only direct inferences that can be made from the early fossil record are that the first two sets of human ancestors, the Australopithecines and the early Homo group, were both small-brained but upright-walking animals that lived
The most important social fluctuation of the first decades of the 20th century was the rise and fall of the organized labor movement.
The earliest people on the North American continent came from Siberia, Alaska, or the far eastern edge of Russia. This is an inference because there are no written records from these people.
Many of the Major's contemporaries would have drawn certain inferences from his attitude.
The reason why some of the latter-day Puritans in America stopped ascribing natural disasters or disease to God's displeasure was because the British ruling class was forcing their religion on to others: they could not punish all Catholics by sending them to Hell
The idea that complex life evolved more than once suggests that it could happen again and may have already happened on other planets.
The shared facial features of the men and animals led the researchers to the conclusion that the two groups were related by common ancestors.
To help with the war effort, the English Parliament passed a law in 1644 requiring all males over the age of 14 to take part in militay training exercises.
The London police treat the crime as an act of terrorism and promptly launch a full investigation.
It is an inference from the passage that some historians believe that the Thirty Years War accelerated the spread of the bubonic plague.
You don't know anything about the Thirty Years War beyond the basic facts that it involved a lot of warring between Catholics and Protestants, and ultimately resulted in the end of Catholic political dominance in Europe. You're going to select choice C...
The extra-terrestrial theory, although it couldn't be proved, could not be ruled out by the data the scientists had gathered.
At first, many people drew far-reaching conclusions from eugenics, such as the idea that a person's social status is a result of his or her genetics.
For many years there was an inference that women in general had a higher pain threshold than men, but the existence of that difference remains quite controversial.
The experience of climbing the stairs so horrified both men that they made a silent inference that they would take an alternative route in future.
...and his inference that what the government says and does is directly influenced by the views of the people is correct.
The main argument of the article is based on the inference that continual professional development leads to better patient care.
It is possible to make certain deductions about the nature of our galaxy based on the evidence we have.
The trial of Adolf Eichmann, a military officer within the Third Reich who organized the transport of Jews to concentration camps, took place in 1960.
Professor: Inference is a statement about something that you can logically guess to be true given what you know.
It is obviously very difficult to draw any firm conclusions on events that happened so long ago, and which involved just one family.
The government's inference that the terrorists were plotting to poison the reservoir was incorrect as later events proved.
The prime minister's inference that he would be forced to call a general election if the Iraq agreement faced more opposition was not well received by the other party leaders.
It must have been a devastating shock for all of them to suddenly realize their fortress was about to be overrun by a large enemy army, especially when they had believed themselves to be totally safe.
Inference is the process of putting many small pieces of evidence together to form a conclusion that cannot be directly seen.
The interpretation is always of a factual nature, an inference drawn from the historical record.
Theorists can make an inference from one fact to another,more general fact.
An inference is a conclusion about something that can't be seen.
Making an inference means working out what someone meant based on clues.
The theologians saw the process of evolution as implying a gradual development of life; and if the theory was correct, this implied a series of past lives.
The United States has long been held out by political scientists as a shining example of a stable democracy; the peaceful transfer of power in 2000 from one political party to another was hailed as a triumph for the system.
From this evidence, can you make any inferences about the nature of the people who lived in thatched houses?
The main aim of this chapter is to construct, or infer, a coherent model of the causes of WW2.
Inference is the process of using specific evidence to draw a logical conclusion about something.
Although some people made a reasonable inference that he was guilty, we can't really know if William Morgan's disappearance was due to some sort of conspiracy or not.
While this inference is possible, I think that there are enough differences between the two texts to make this unlikely.
A typical example of the use of logic to make an inference is given in the following passage:
The way you are attracting these wasps suggests that they are using vision to home in on you.
An ongoing cause of instability during the period, the inability of the tenuous British rule to protect its citizens from frequent tribal raids created an atmosphere of fear and insecurity among Indians, who felt their only protection was to place themselves under the protection of a
The inference I draw from this is that the government should not interfere in this process.
The next day she made an inference that I would be the type of man who would pay a lot for a blow job, so she kept me locked in her apartment for two weeks.
The most famous inference drawn from the skeletal evidence is that Neanderthals were capable of speech, just like modern humans.
You can't think of any suitable words and you sigh. The Professor looks up from his glossy papers and stares at you. You look down in embarrassment, but he begins to grin.
The biochemists inferred from these clues that the fraudster had been using common table salt.
The boy's mother, of course, made the natural emotional inference that he was somehow involved in the girl's disappearance.
The discussion rages on with the opposing team weighing in on the question of whether or not your conclusions were an appropriate inference from the evidence found, or if they were merely wishful thinking.
The "Oxford English Dictionary" is organized alphabetically, and definitions and spellings are guided by inference from historical documents.
The purpose of this museum is to make an inference as to the reason why so many individuals were interested in acquiring weapons.
Creationists argue that the Second Law of Thermodynamics prevents evolution from being possible, basing this inference on the observation that everything naturally tends toward disorder and decay.
Second-wave feminism in the United States began in the early 1960s, developing further from the first-wave feminism of the earlier part of the 20th century.
Your inferences or interpretations of the information were entirely your own, however.
The North will never win the war because you cannot conquer the South.
It is difficult to make an accurate inference from just one bone, but it appears to be less thick than that of modern men.
One can only make an inference as to why the gates were made so large.
The inference we are meant to draw from the fact that all these different races can trace their origins back to Africa is that racial differences are superficial.
He drew the logical inference from the evidence that she had not boarded the plane
"The Black Death killed millions of people and ended the medieval golden age of medieval Europe."
The government has asked the university to draw up a set of inferences from an unprecedented number of enrolment figures.
The original copy of the treaty was lost, but historians were able to make inferences about what the treaty said based on letters and memos by various people involved in its drafting and ratification.
The ability to comprehend the world around us and act accordingly is the basis of the human condition.
Inference is a logical process of deriving a new fact from one or more facts, concepts, or principles already known or assumed to be true.
It is possible to make an inference about the nature of the relationship between the sun and the earth from their positions relative to one another at noon on only two days in a year,
'Phlogiston', a supposed element that was thought to be released when objects burned, was believed to be involved in combustion.
As a result, a neural network has a highly complex internal structure which presents an obstacle to understanding it.
'Corpses have no ears', he told himself, trying to suppress the thought that the body on the table was now dead.
The American inference from this evidence was that the island's inhabitants hadn't prepared themselves for such an attack.
Novelists make the events seem more real by drawing plausible inferences from the very limited information they have at their disposal.
The speed with which the Romans evacuated Britain, an area they had controlled for more than two centuries, implies that the intentions of the rebel forces were far from being their impluse, as it would seem.
The best way to form an inference is to look at the clues in a sample and ask yourself what that tells you about the whole population
The reason why the doctors came to their conclusion was an inference from the mass of data they collected concerning your condition.
We can make this inference from the evidence provided, as the percentage of B blood types in central and northern Europe is considerably higher than in other parts of the world.
The new leader made a number of policy changes, some of which caused concern among the population and could perhaps be said to have been based on an inference from his speeches rather than direct evidence.
Dr. Elizabeth Corcoran, the head of project, made the inference that the rapidly breeding rats would provide an inexhaustible source of human antibodies and therefore find a cure for HIV.
The inference we can draw from this is that both parties are governed by short-term goals and election cycles rather than long-term planning, and that there are no real winners.
However, we can make two important inferences from the lack of physical evidence.
The discovery of the new ruins has allowed archaeologists to draw certain inferences about a civilization they previously knew nothing about.
The fact that the first factory owners had to adopt the principle of the strike is a clear indication that popular power was an important factor in creating the social conditions necessary for the revolution.
The religious orders were very powerful in the medieval world; they owned about a third of all the available farmland and collected a good part of the annual revenue.
It was an inference, rather than direct knowledge, and like most inferences about history it could never be more than a best guess.
The question facing the nineteenth-century rulers was one of inference: what was the best way to preserve their power in changing circumstances?
The speaker's inference that children are the future is debatable since high infant mortality would have made many people forget this idea.
It's a logical inference that the political papers were in fact the most important papers of that time period.
The child had made an inference based on what he knew of the teacher's character.
The Spanish Civil War was used as an excuse for the United States to intervene in European affairs, which can be considered a cause of World War Two.
Unfortunately, the experiment fails to prove the existence of free will.
The inference is that the earliest art was most probably tattooing or body-painting.
The main inference I would draw from all of these facts is that the development of a strong, centralized government and a powerful army are more important than anything else if a nation hopes to survive in the international community.
Little can be inferred about the habits of the people who painted these ancient cave paintings.


#induce

The main reason that the upper classes wanted power in a democracy was to have a greater ability to induce change.
The United States government responded with a foreign policy that they hoped would induce the Taliban to hand over bin Laden, without waging war against Afghanistan.
The effects of the war were so devastating that they induced chaos and revolution elsewhere in Europe.
Terrorist groups can be induced to abandon their activities by means of negotiation or compromise.
In no small measure, Gareis' success was due to his ability to induce agents in Vichy France to turn traitor and cooperate with him.
Because it can affect all sectors in an economy, inflation is more than just a tax on the poor; it can also slow down production and induce inflation.
Their attempts to induce economic agreement and cooperation among nations have been less successful.
The best way to prevent forest fires is to make their detection and location as definitive as possible, which can be done by inducing blazes in isolated government areas.
This would make it impossible to induce patients to come in with, for example, sudden onset blindness.
To induce vomiting, a particularly notorious poison, you should drink a mix of 1 tsp. of baking soda and 1 tbsp. of salt dissolved in a glass of water.
One of the major causes of the Cold War, the American policy of containing the spread of Communism, was never abandoned.
The process of industrialization is generally believed to have been induced by the arrival of new energy resources, especially coal.
The only thing that can induce the Scyphistoms to leave a planet is an even greater parasite.
Chlorofluorocarbons(CFCs) are gases which can be used for pressurizing some products, such as hair spray and even cans of food.
They should try one of these drugs to help induce labor.
The Habsburgs were able to induce the Bohemians into fighting for them, and the French weren't able to easily fight on two fronts.
In addition to negative and positive health implications of these forces, they also lead to the creation of a male-dominated structure.
However, disease may not have been the only factor to cause population decline among Native Americans after 1492.
So if you wanted to ensure that the worst criminal elements in your society don't reproduce, the simplest method would be to induce sterility in them.
While some rumors of Soviet research into mind control techniques have trickled out, seem to indicate that this science is less developed in the Soviet Union.
The repercussions of this event can still be felt today, and the large population centers around the planet's shores are entirely reliant on the sea for their survival, having long since completely filled in all land nearby and then some with long rows of buildings.
The consequences of the failure to address the country's energy shortage could have been serious and might well have induced more people to move away.
The women were induced to have their babies at home with the help of a professional midwife.
There is a well-known and extreme difficulty with the induced pluripotent stem cell techniques.
The central government's inability to induce greater tax payments from countries it nominally controlled was a major factor in its collapse.
The assassination of the Archduke was the event that induced the major European powers to draw their colonial empires into the conflict.
However, they could not induce the creature to reproduce and soon lost interest.
Unfortunately, the creation of Cavorite induced some chemical changes in the photographic plates that were storing images of the full Moon surface for later study.
The ‘Information Superhighway' will accelerate the flow of information and media, that is, it will greatly ‘induce' the mass media to produce more of the same.
Professor: From what I can tell, the term media is used in different ways from different perspectives.
However, there is some evidence that the magnetic fields of the Earth might induce electrical currents in wires if they are long enough.
The evidence indicates that smoking causes lung cancer and other health problems and therefore should be avoided; this is known as the health message and is considered to have a "narrow" or immediate implication for the individual.
At various times in the past, it has tried to induce other nations to abolish the death penalty and to allow Red Cross inspectors to visit prisons and detention centres.
The bill would have allowed for children to be induced into temporary comas while medical teams removed tissue for transplants.
The pressure to induce young women into pregnancies they don't want with men who aren't ready to commit is one of the major causes of divorce.
Even the stated intentions of a leader can be misinterpreted by the masses and can subsequently result in a popular movement having effects that were not initially intended.
However, some people argue that increased atmospheric levels of carbon dioxide don't directly induce global warming.
Naturally, teachers would have to be retrained and many would probably quit, but the positive effects on society would induce many of them to remain in their jobs.
Conversely, certain kinds of racial discrimination have been shown to decrease performance by increasing stress.
They induced dolphins to leap incredible heights out of the water by means of fish attached to poles.
The break-up of the magnetic field might induce huge electric currents that could prove disastrous for life on Earth, even causing our atmosphere to disintegrate, they warn.
It seems strange that the great powers of the time should do so little to induce a solution of the problem short of war.
The treaty failed to induce the aggressor to lay down arms.
The more tradition-bound Dukes proved to be difficult to induce into helping the rebellion in any meaningful way.
The main difficulty in inducing a patient to terminate his or her life is the fear that this terrible burden will be placed on the family.
One of the biggest challenges for marine biologists and toxicologists is to determine as precisely as possible how the oil is transported through various regions of the food chain and how it is broken down, absorbed or induced to induce harmful effects.
The use of anabolic steroids by athletes has increased significantly in the past few years, but the government has so far been unsuccessful in inducing them to stop.
The Stalinist purges of the 1930s, which induced so much fear in the Soviet citizens that anyone could report any of their neighbors to the police and literally get away with it.
The machine does not work by clairvoyance but instead employs a trial and error method of extreme speed. It simply tries out every combination of coordinates till it hits the right one.
But the roads and settlements, which the settlers had induced Indian tribes to abandon were no longer available.
The method by which the police induced the criminal to confess is beyond the scope of this essay.
The next morning, he induced vomiting and then brought him some water to drink.
The aetiological theory states that a collection of diseases with similar characteristics, such as genital herpes, measles or chicken pox, are all caused by the same agent called a virus which is too small to see with the naked eye, and in
Professor: The French Revolution was the first example of a liberal democracy, and is to date the only time when the common people took power from the monarchy through peaceful means.
However, the rise of feudalism was not mainly due to the 'inducement' of the Church.
The Prime Minister recently encouraged people to buy British.
The government decided to seek an outside expert's opinion before passing a new law on air quality, but the factory owners objected, as they feared an outside expert might induce the government to take action.
The Atlantic Ocean induces strong westerly winds which for centuries made the return trip to the continent extremely difficult.
It is a well-known phenomenon that stress reduces the effectiveness of the immune system, which in turn leads to increased susceptibility to disease and thus reduced fitness.
A vaccine can also be administered, which will prevent the disease from being induced.
It took the development of air conditioning to an induce a mass migration from south to north.
In this way the external conditions are induced by the inner change.
The first difficulty that a social reformer would have to overcome was the inducement for the men to work.
The arts were subsidized on a small scale by a few rich individuals, but never on a large scale until the twentieth century when governments started to 'induce' spending on the arts.
The movement of women into factories during World War II increased the need for day care facilities and this in turn helped induce a change in stereotypes and attitudes towards women.
It is easier to induce an epileptic fit through visual stimuli than through chemical stimuli.
One of the main problems with the method is that it doesn't actually induce genuine memories, but instead relies on creative imagination.
The Nazis attempted to induce their youth into becoming devoted National Socialist followers by indoctrinating them at a young age.
Using a sharp stone to induce a series of cuts in the skin was an effective way to produce blood for spells and incantations.
However, recent evidence has been obtained by inducing fermentation in glucogenic amino acid medium under aerobic condition.
The use of force to induce the provinces to submit in a war of aggression was illegal at that time.
The only way to prevent the epidemic from spreading was to induce birth control
It is sometimes written that the British Empire was brought down by the bullets of the Irishmen who assassinated its greatestGeneral, Raghenn
The disease was isolated and its cause was induced in lab animals.
There are so many exemptions that the legislation is easily circumvented.
He then induced the tumors in some of these rodents with a chemical, and found that those that were jogging in their cages resisted the cancer-inducing effects of the substance, while the sedentary ones showed an enhanced vulnerability to it.
The treatment was found to have no effect and would not be approved in the US until the mid-90s, where four Phase 3 clinical trials, largely organised by the NHLBI and the National Cancer Institute (NCI), were performed involving 1
During the late part of the 19th century and part of the 20th, there was an increase in trend towards two separate classes in Mexico.
The main reason for taking an ethical attitude to behavior on the part of physicians is to induce the
The main reason for taking an ethical attitude to behavior on the part of physicians is to induce them not to take advantage of their patients.
Professor: It is primarily because of this reason that we must not only maintain our own independence but also oppose any attempts to subjugate us by foreign powers.
Professor: It is primarily because of this reason that we must not only maintain our own independence but also oppose any attempts to subjugate us by foreign powers.
Professor: In short we would lose our culture and as a people.
Professor: It is primarily because of this reason that we must not only maintain our own independence but also oppose any attempts to subjugate us by foreign powers.
Professor: Our country's natural resources, especially the extensive deposits of minerals such as coal, are primarily located in these former colonies.
Professor: The decision to go ahead with the changes in our support for the government was primarily financial.
Correct answers: 1.C, 2.D, 3.B, 4.A, 5.


#insinuate

The two men had known each other for some time and neither seemed inclined to insinuate themselves into the others' company.
We watched as the sun insinuated its rays through a murky cloud.
The Portuguese authorities have insinuated that the fishermen are carrying out this vandalism themselves and selling the wrecks for scrap.
He always managed to insinuate his way into the most powerful government positions and his policies were unpopular with both the working class and the middle class.
The secretary tried to insinuate that the problem with the machine was intentional.
There was an undercurrent of anti-Semitism in Europe, which fascists insinuated into society.
Your fellow economists have insinuated that your research is sub-par.
They were master politicians who insinuated their way into the nobility of many royal courts throughout Europe.
The relationship between the two only started to deteriorate when the duke insinuated that the king secretly supported a rival claim to the throne.
His speech, which had been very accommodating in its actual content, insinuated that the government would soon have to make major decisions.
I'd love to come and watch, but I don't want to insinuate myself into your life.
In England the children from non-wealthy families had to leave school between the ages of 9 and 11 and go into mines or factories to insinuate.
The law was severely criticized by politicians, media commentators and the public who saw it as an attempt by the government to insinuate itself into private life.
And it is quite true, that women's bodies can lead to unexpected results… the best proof is your existence which was an accident as you well know... however, I will not go into that.
Using a new technique called,
The passage insinuates that as separate species, humans and chimpanzees must have evolved independently just like other mammals, birds or reptiles.
"I've never seen the point of modern art," he insinuated loudly at dinner.
The older farmers had resented the Jews in their midst from the beginning, and now anti-Semitism, which literally means hatred of Jews, was given an opportunity to insinuate itself into public opinion.
Yet in the next breath he would insinuate that Jews had masterminded the Russian Revolution.
His best friend insinuated that he had stolen money from the cash register before he set it on fire and ran away.
The law states that immigrants to the United States must obey its rules and regulations; thus, they must follow its culture and values and not try to insinuate their old ways into this country.
The novelist insinuates that the character is a psychopath obsessed with self-preservation and manipulating events so she can stay alive.
The appeal to experts is a form of argument in which it is stated that, because an expert in a particular field has stated an opinion on it, that opinion must be right.
Labor law has traditionally not insinuated itself into the decision whether to hire or fire for economic reasons.
The implication that the relationship between the Seleucid Empire and the city of Rome was a sexual one may have been intended as a joke by Griffin, but other authors have taken it seriously.
The dictator insinuated that the journalist wanted to overthrow his regime.
The relationship between the artist and the critic is traditionally a love-hate one, in which both parties constantly attempt to insinuate themselves into one another's world.
"To throw in gradually, as by infusing a fluid slowly in."
His words were chosen to insinuate that the Prime Minister was biased towards the policy.
The criticism was made more or less implicitly in private conversations, rather than openly.
The film "The Insider" is about the American TV journalist who ends
During the sixteenth century the notion began to insinuate itself that the Church of England was little different from the Roman Catholic Church.
The government does not usually tax middle-class people excessively, instead insinuating that they would not pay taxes at all if they were not dutiful citizens.
The humble colony might be able to insinuate itself into the councils of the world and play a role far beyond what anyone had previously thought.
The government does not openly "insinuate" that it will tolerate criticism only up to a point.
Nobody could prove that the empress was poisoning the king, but rumours about her increase, and these insinuations lead to her being banished from court.
The fact that the Church has chosen not to openly insinuate that the geneticists are close-minded for not including God in their work might be seen as a sign of progress in the Church.
The capillaries are so small that the brownish gas readily insinuates itself between them.
However, Nitschmann's real ambition was still to pursue missionary work among the American Indians, and when the first bishop of Pennsylvania, fellow German Theodore Schneider, arrived in New Amsterdam in 1742 he received an enthusiastic response from Nitschmann who
The British were forced to insinuate military advisors into the region.
The religion had already insinuated itself into the fabric of the community.
The results were often very far from the facts and the authors sometimes insinuated things that were simply not true.
The adviser continually insinuated that the student was incapable of independent study.
But you're not worried, because you know you'll be able to insinuate yourself into the group easily.
The government was insinuating that union leaders were subversives who wanted to overthrow the establishment.
His long suit was mental manipulation, and he insinuated himself into a position of power within the Secret Service.
The Communists were feared because they infiltrated all aspects of the government.
The priest tried to insinuate that the doctors didn't really know what they were doing
The insinuations that these groups had brought out caused much concern from the government.
The official histories of World War II do not make much of the connection between the Nazis' anti-Semitic beliefs and the Holocaust.
The class structure these rulers insinuated still exists in many underdeveloped countries, even in the new millennium.
In fact, even his insinuation that the judge was incompetent was an attempt to influence the case.
In the years since then he had insinuated himself into university administration and eventually became dean of the College of Arts and Sciences.
In 1789, several radical politicians in France began to insinuate to the people that they had the right to have more of a say in how the government was run.
As part of his research, he had insinuated himself into the confidence of several right-wing organizations.
The new dean began to insinuate himself into the affections of other professors' wives.
All this sexual insinuation was rather embarrassing for two people who had known each other as long as we had and who felt nothing but friendship for each other.
They couldn't get a contract to make an independent record, so they had to insinuate themselves into a major-label band.
The past few years, however, have seen some very loud calls for the police forces to be re-examined, with several groups insinuating a conspiracy within the LAPD itself in regards to the harassment of black people.
Not a day passed without him insinuating I had become a Catholic.
The process involved was a very subtle one of long duration, and the changes are said to have been made principally by the use of shells as money.
"The Church had learned over time that the best way to handle accusations was to ignore them, disregard them, and, if at all possible, insinuate them into the minds of the accusers."
The class draws to an end and the professor thanks you all.
The popes, who are usually considered the successors of Peter, have traditionally been careful to 'insinuate' or insert themselves into periods of great uncertainty in the church.
"I wouldn't insinuate myself into your plans, but I'm eager to learn more about my future classmates"
The attempts by Count Karolyi to insinuate himself as the rightful leader of Hungary led to his assassination in 1921.
The process of insinuating yourself into this man's life will be far simpler than you thought.
"Suffice it to say I hope you don't insinuate yourself into our good graces again. Next time you'll find us less ... lenient."
The 19th-century poet gradually insinuated his support for women's rights into his poetry.
Virtually all societies--including those that we consider the most conservative and repressive--allow people to insinuate themselves into positions of power.
Mr. Scandal! What an insinuating gentleman you are, to be sure!
When the Nazis began killing German Jews and the disabled, known as ‘life not worth living' the Roman Catholic Church didn't openly criticize the government or 'insinuate' that all life was sacred.
They were warned that they would have to abandon their old ways of quietly insinuating that the university curriculum should be weighted in favour of the white students.
The monarchy did not intend to give up its power, and it took every opportunity to insinuate itself into the war effort.
The female patients often joked that the doctors on the ward were handsome, but no-one ever said anything dangerous or illegal, and no-one ever insinuated that any of them wanted to escape.
The Catholic Church sought to insinuate the belief that the Church's power over people persisted after death.
The American couple were accused of attempting to insinuate the American way of life in Pakistan.
'The drug companies want to insinuate themselves in the lives of the children, ' she says.
The only way to truly educate the public is to insinuate our ideas into their social circles, like a neighbor or co-worker.
The new theory does not necessarily refute the old one, but it insinuates that it may not be an exact science.
It isn't always easy for women to insinuate themselves into a heavily male-dominated environment such as the medical profession or the police force.
Religions are not the only institutions to use guilt as a means to an end; advertisers frequently insinuate that, for instance, dirty dishes imply an unclean person.
The Americans are deeply suspicious of any attempt by the United Nations to insinuate a world government into their national life.
Even their costumes insinuated a neighboring country, although it was not politically expedient to say which one.
After being released from nine years of incarceration, Nelson Mandela set about insinuating himself back into African National Congress decision-making.
"The danger in this plan is that once the military begin to insinuate themselves into civilian areas, it becomes almost impossible to get them to stop."
The poor girl didn't know what to do; she wanted to help her friend, but she was afraid that, if she insinuated herself into the investigation, she'd be told to go home.
As he grew older he increasingly insinuated his thoughts and wishes into our minds.
The King was able to insinuate himself into the Pope's good graces and secure an annulment to his marriage.
The new evidence that has been unearthed doesn't prove that your ancestor was a Roman, it merely insinuates it.
The new research caused him to insinuate that a large donation to the university's biology dept.
Jesse James' elder brother Frank once sarcastically insinuated that his sibling's character was shaped by the company he kept.
The priest would insinuate that God agreed with his own views and disliked those of other religions.
The two main campaigns of the American Civil War addressed these two issues. The insinuation being that the other side was planning to do away with certain rights if they won the war.
But your success in doing so would be quickly detected and would lead to the implication that you had been lying all along.
As education spreads throughout society and more and more people are taught to read, newspapers and cheap novels will serve to acquaint them with the latest ideas that are insinuated into their heads.


#instil

'The loyalty of the kings had to be instilled into them from young.'
I read it and it consists of short stories and poems.
The company wanted to instil a sense of responsibility in its young customers.
At the end of term, he was asked to instil some discipline in a private school in Yorkshire, England.
A correct moral education should instil children of the importance of human life.
This led to the belief that beliefs did not have to be instilled at birth, but could be acquired after birth.
However, these early attempts at welfare reform failed to instil a sense of shared American identity.
However, the purpose of these restrictions was not to instil fear into employees of the regime, but rather to ensure that they did not waste time and that they took their work seriously.
Lipman is generally believed to have instilled a strong sense of unity in the trade unions.
The army wanted to instil in the soldier an unquestioning obedience to orders.
The teenagers instilled a sense of independence in their children without smothering them with attention.
Unemployment instils hopelessness into many people and makes it harder for them to find a job.
It is hoped that the police can instil a fear in potential criminals of being caught.
Constantin wisely decided to instil respect for the law into the new populace, in order to prevent chaos.
The moral value system instilled into every female at an early age was one of submission to men.
It soon became apparent that the government had no intention of instilling fear in the hearts of the population.
But other historians have also paid tribute to Mr. Weber's ability to instil a sense of mission in his orchestra.
But that doesn't mean you can just walk away from it. The government of the powerful country I live in is implacably opposed to this idea, and they will do whatever it takes to instil the fear in people again.
The wealthy landowners tried to instil the idea that they had the peasants' best interests in mind.
Nevertheless, they never entirely ruled out the possibility that God might still instil fear into those with less faith.
The USA wanted to instil a system of checks and balances into the new order, so that no one branch of government would become too powerful.
While the government wanted to instil the values of patriotism into children, teachers thought this was inappropriate as the children had to learn to be critical and think for themselves.
Professor: The way religious boarding schools instilled their ancient rituals and beliefs into the children.
The Bill of Rights was designed to instil principles of freedom and democracy in the people who lived under it.
Nobody could instil or inculcate patriotism into the citizens.
Instilling the concept of duty in our youth isn't enough.
The EEC was supposed to instil a feeling of loyalty to the Community as a whole and, while this mission was by no means a failure, it is clear that the Treaty of Rome was unable to prevent nationalism from flourishing.
His whole training has been to instil discipline and blind obedience into him since birth.
In the long term, though, we will have to do more than that if it turns out that these people were responsible for the attacks on my plane.
Mr. Wonka, who was German, was determined to instil in his students a sense of optimism that industrialization wouldn't completely destroy the world.
It is their hope that this will instil in them a sense of national pride in their forefathers' accomplishments.
The peasants' loyalty to the aristocracy had been instilled at a young age through the educational system.
She realised that even though the atmosphere in the museum was going to be exciting and invigorating, it could also be dangerous for those who had not been there before.
Instilling racial tolerance in children is vital because it will stop newer generations of people from perpetuating racial hatred.
In an effort to instil a sense of personal and national pride in the Japanese people, the lessons paid special attention to the modern and industrial achievements of the nation.
In the long run, our goal is to instill a sense of responsibility in our students.
I also need to instil in them a sense of awe at the greatness and grandeur of the cosmos.
In 1945 the allied powers instilled democarcy in Germany.
Catherine the Great succeeded in instilling herself as an indispensable member of the line of Russian rulers.
The chief judge was a courageous old soldier who tried to instil courage into the weak king.
The aim was to instil a sense of discipline in the men's minds.
It is possible to instil in children the knowledge that they will have to repay borrowed money when they are adults.
The goal was to instil in the troops the idea that they were superior to everyone else in the country.
Remember to instil discipline in your troops as they are more likely to follow you into battle if they respect and trust you.
Some teenagers find it very difficult to instil a sense of responsibility in their little brothers and sisters.
The problem was how to instil that respect into the students, especially those who were inclined to question authority.
And to instil in them an understanding of the need for mutual dependence of all things.
The government of this region was notoriously undemocratic and it tried to instil a sense of fear in the people through its secret police.
At the beginning of the horror movie when the characters are gathered in a house that is haunted and mumbling about what could be causing strange events, it can be said that fear is being instilled into them.
Although the last years of the United Kingdom of Sweden and Norway were relatively peaceful, he was unable to instil in his son the importance of constitutional rule any more than he had been able to instil in his father a sense of Romanticism.
By the beginning of the sixteenth century the Spanish monarchy had created a system that could instil fear into anyone that challenged it.
The government of the German Empire under Bismarck was eager to instil a national feeling into their citizens.
Despite his attempts to instil some sort of work ethic in her, she had never taken him seriously, and today was no exception.
Gorbachev attempted to instil a spirit of freedom and a patriotic pride in the Soviet people.
The Church wanted to instil some discipline into the turbulent post-Roman
The government's move to instil fear in the people and manipulate them through the media made it easier for them to introduce more restrictive laws.
Q: Professor, the university states in its mission statement that it is supposed to be a place dedicated to the creation of knowledge and the dissemination of facts. Is it operative here?
That is why it is so dangerous for political leaders to instil their citizens with dreams of empire.
The poet and writer Percy Shelley produced the first version of Frankenstein; or, The Modern Promethius in 1818.
The military regime promised to instil discipline in the youth and to unite the classes
Meaning the same thing to everyone, or a commonly accepted shared view of what the aims of science and knowledge are, are not things that can be easily instilled in people.
The peasants' loyalty to their class was instilled at an early age by the nobility.
The Civil War had exacerbated sectional differences and instilled a bitterness that ensured that the nation would never again be unified
The Church's repressive measures worked well enough to instil fear into the masses, who obeyed the decrees without question.
The king found many ways to instil his will upon his subjects
The government succeeded in instilling nationalism in the citizens through the flag.
He explained that the main aim of the Cuban education system was to instil a love of learning in the students.
The main purpose of the trial was to instil fear in opponents of the regime.
"Ideologies instil a mental framework that give individuals and societies a basic understanding of the world around them."
Protestantism was in essence a body of belief that was mainly political and economic in nature.
The Nazis wished to instil their nationalist values and ideas in the schoolchildren.
You think the question means 'to cause to be deeply and firmly planted'.
However, a year after the coup was instigated by the Germans, the Soviet government was able to stifle the revolution and resume the war.
"It's just going to take time for me to
It is difficult to instil into patients the idea that their symptoms will eventually pass, even many years later.
Still, as the communist movement gained support, many repressive governments in other parts of the world also had to instil anti-communist policies.
Not content with its conquests on land, the Greek empire of Alexander the Great also expanded into the seas.
Fear was one of the principles employed by the communists to instil discipline in the Party.
It is important to stress that threats, beatings and other forms of nastiness are not effective at instilling discipline in the long term.
Saul was unsure of himself as he had never engaged in combat before, so the captain tried to instil confidence in him.
It says here: "The reason why I am a keen angler is because I wish to instil in my son a love and respect for nature."
They thought that the government should instil the values of hard work and discipline into the youth.
"The government of that time tried to instil the importance of family values."
The peasants had long resented the power of the barons, whom they saw as arrogant and greedy; the idea of "no kings, no tyrants" is one they would certainly have instilled into their children from a young age.
It is not clear whether the bomb was ever instilled with deadly materials, but it could certainly do so.
Religion was used to instil morals and good deeds in children, as well as explaining the world.
But despite many attempts to instil discipline into him he continued to fail the exams and so after a year they finally gave up on him.
Since the times o
Professor: In this regard, the university's aim was to instil in its students an understanding and appreciation of various ethical issues concerning medical practice.
Try to instil a little creativity into your answers!
The program was designed to instil in students a love of learning and an appreciation of the joys that academic success can bring.
Sadly, he never really managed to instil the same loyalty into his son.
He said that it was shameful how the government was instilling fear into the masses by saying that the scientists were planning to take control of the world.
To instil discipline in someone means to teach them to obey rules or to cause them to have a particular attitude, here fear.
It was clear that the government wanted to instil fear into all those who opposed them, for which the most brutal and efficient tool was required.


#insular

Lacking interest in or awareness of what is occurring in the rest of the world
It is sometimes said that the Irish are an
Because Britain is an island, historically it has been insular in its outlook, inclined to concentrate on home affairs while other nations controlled the more important international relationships.
A study of the mitochondrial DNA of living human populations in Europe shows that these were all descended from the same woman and that she was genetically 'insular', or from one of the islands of modern-day Great Britain.
In North America, language diversity was higher in the insular areas of California and Texas
One of the most important things to come out of this process of consolidation was the idea of a unified state with fixed borders, the concept of an 'insular', or island, kingdom.
Burt also believed that the inhabitants of British islands were separate from world history, influenced only by the insular Celtic languages, a theory he called "insularity".
The English Channel effectively isolated England, which explain why it is less diverse linguistically than the European mainland.
At the beginning of the Norman conquest of Ireland in the 1170s, the island was divided into at least five kingdoms and had a largely pre-literate tribal society.
The inhabitants of the British Isles, they are often regarded as insular and defensive.
There were no native mammals at all on this island, and some of the birds made up for this with their insularity and fierce defensiveness.
While the Irish division is certainly not insular, it tends to be more inward-looking.
A theory postulated by an English geologist,C. Lapworth, the insular Celtic area includes Ireland, Britain, and part of Continental Europe on both sides of the English Channel.
Because of the wide selection of candy bars and the opportunity to eat inside at one of the little tables, this is a favorite gathering spot for students when it rains.
The inhabitants of Australia and the island nations in the Pacific are descended from people who developed a Stone Age culture and lifestyle after initially being isolated from the rest of the world's people.
The Irish had resisted the English mainly through their ability to shut themselves off from the outside world when necessary, an ability that dates back to ancient times and which is a product of Ireland's insular position.
In the aftermath of World War I a new set of European boundaries were drawn, and the idea of an insular Britain, like an island fortress, was replaced by the concept of a British Empire that would last a thousand years.
Ireland, despite its reputation, is not insular and parochial.
The Jews were able to preserve their ancient language in an insular culture.
A social rule is known as an "insult" if it can be applied to an group or person to imply that they are inferior in some way.
The main problem of the medieval Roman Empire was the loss of territory on its borders, and the final split between the Eastern and the Western Roman Empires.
In the non-Malay parts of the former British colony, the law is used more to benefit the ethnic majority, and this has resulted in some insular judgements.
The primitiveness of their society was preserved by their insularity.
Defending the British Empire meant more ships sailing across the ocean, which meant an increase in reports of sea serpents and other insular creatures.
The inhabitants of the island have developed a completely different accent from that spoken on the parent country.
From the middle of the twentieth century onwards, there had been a marked increase in the number of people living an "insular existence" cut off from the remainder of society by soaring house prices and an exorbitant cost of living.
While he was alive he had great influence on Hawaiian politics and society, being known as the one of the last great "kings" or "kau-la'i" of Hawaii.
Mohenjo-Daro is a city in southern Pakistan that was built more than four thousand years ago.
North Korea is described as an 'insular' society where the state tries to control everything and that's pretty much it.
The inhabitants of Great Britain and Ireland have traditionally endured being separated from the rest of Europe by water, a fact that has contributed to the insularity of these islands.
As with much else in the Norman period, insular Anglo-Saxon Englnd developed in relative isolation from the rest of Europe and so suffered less from the later upheavals that affected much of that continent, particularly the religious conflicts
The Irish have traditionally been seen as insular, lacking in energy and initiative.
In 1386, the representatives of the four main insular states in the British Isles (Ireland, Scotland, England and Wales) met to decide what should be done about the Crown of England.
A male kangaroo is called a buck, a female is a doe, and a young kangaroo is a joey.
The Irish are typically involved in matters concerning their rich and lengthy history, music, the arts and sports.
Ireland, with its insular culture and fervent Catholicism, existed outside the main current of European history.
In the nineteenth century, it was believed that only people from temperate climates made any significant advances in science and culture. However, 20th-century theories of colonialism have since shown that insular regions can make such advances.
Before the 19th century, the people of Ireland were known as 'the Irish' and those of Scottish descent as 'the Scots'. They were separate peoples with separate identities.
The Indian subcontinent is also sometimes referred to as "Asia's insular peninsula"
The Atlantic Ocean, although quite stormy and impeding contact between divided people, is too large to be an effective divider of peoples.
The British ruling class's attitude towards the Irish is a good example of this, any sign of Irish nationalism was deemed to be dangerous as it might lead to secession and setting an example that might cause other colonial populations to do the same, the notion
Before it was discovered by the Portuguese navigator Vasco da Gama, who named it "Ilha da Vera Cruz"
The people of the British Isles are relatively insular.
As a result, many New Zealanders are insular and unfriendly to foreigners.
The strongest case for an Irish origin of the Scots is the fact that until the Union of the Crowns in 1603, there were no strong English influences on Scotland.
Ashkenazi Jews, for example, are considered to be insular, marrying within their own small ethnic community.
Ireland was once a part of the British Empire but has retained a separate and different identity throughout the rest of the Empire's history.
The Centre was run by a reclusive elderly man called Carstairs, who appeared to have an obsession with stamps – every room in his house was filled with stamp albums and prints.
For this reason, the inhabitants of Crete have traditionally been seen as more insular than those of, for example, mainland Greece
The use of two different words for the citizens of Ireland-- Irish and Eireannach --reflects the island's long history of British invasion and occupation.
Burke believed that the English were naturally tolerant, but a society's beliefs and mores are largely shaped by geography and climate, and England is an insular island.
Your boyfriend's inability to connect with people may be a sign of social ineptness rather than an indication that everyone else is a closed-minded, insular idiot.
The inhabitants of the British Isles are famously insular.
During the First World War the British attempted to take Constantinople (modern Istanbul) from the Ottoman Empire. The plan was to break the alliance between Germany and Turkey.
Christianity became the main religion of the Roman Empire and maintained its hold on much of Europe and North Africa in the form of the Latin-speaking Catholic Church, insular and suspicious of outsiders.
With no native snakes, lizards or amphibians on its isolated terrain the Hawaiian island chain has served as an ideal testing ground for hypotheses about how island bio-diversity has evolved.
The Pacific island peoples are known for being insular and hostile towards foreigners. They have also been exceedingly difficult to convert to Christianity.
Exmoor with its wild ponies, seals on the shores of Culbone and great potatos in the bogs is an island of an older and insular world.
Insular is a term that derives from the Latin word for island.
One theory on the origins of the Old English script centres on insular script, an alphabet used by Irish missionaries to convert the English in the 5th century.
A culture as insular as the Jews' wouldn't likely be interested in foreign ideas at the time.
The Azores, in the middle of the North Atlantic Ocean, are a chain of volcanic islands that constitute the insular territory of Portugal.
Everyone in the neighborhood liked the insular old man who never complained about anything.
Unfortunately, the very fact that people were struggling to learn a new language meant that they weren't really interacting. Irish society was still very much insular and introverted.
The Irish have traditionally been considered insular and unwilling to experiment.
This was a time of greatly increased contact between the mainlands and the islands and with that came many new developments, innovations and as a result the movement of ideas, fashions and inventions such as farming, writing and technology.
The university's drinking society, or "guild" as they call themselves, annoys the rest of the student population with its silly initiations that freshmen must go through.
The last population that comes from insular Southeast Asia is interesting; it contains people who have the physical characteristics of Australo-Melanesians, but a mixture of genes from Chinese and Japanese populations.
-- In fact, many of those who have not been much concerned with poetical refinement have the greatest confidence in their own capacity; and, as a celebrated anatomist intrepidly declared, that he could produce a poem as good as
It was the insularity of England that made this type of institution, with a continent distracted by religious warfare and a busy empire.
The Irish are an insular people, as one might expect from a nation that has been occupied and English-speaking for only about 500 years.
The British Isles are an archipelago and England, Scotland and Wales are known as the insular British nations.
Despite the doubts of some architectural historians, many scholars believed 50 years ago that Stonehenge was an ancient burial ground.
The people of the British Isles are considered to be insular, as most of them neither have nor want passports.
The English used to refer to the Irish as ‘the wild Irish,'and the term ‘insular' was first applied to the Irish people in 1793, during the Act of Union debates.
Although there are many similarities between Britain and the European mainland, there are equally many differences, for instance in insular Britain Roman history never quite repeated itself.
Before this difference in gene expression becomes obvious, the patients undergo an MRI scan.
Melanesia, the largest sub-region of Oceania, consists of 1) islands that are geographically located in the so-called Pacific Ring of Fire.
In ancient Ireland and Britain, some royal centers such as the hill fort of Danebury were vast military strongholds containing arsenals, barracks, and proclamation halls.
The resulting decrease in communication and trade resulted in a stagnant culture and the countries of the empire became increasingly insular.
This group included the East and West coasts of the United States as well as Australia, New Zealand and many Pacific Islands, especially insular locations like Hawaii.
People who live in relatively insular communities.
The inhabitants of Great Britain have remained an insular people,
Since the 1980s Ireland has undergone enormous social, economic and political changes that have transformed it from a traditional rural-agricultural society to a post-industrial nation that is increasingly integrated into the global economy.
The Scottish legal system is rather insular and little known outside the country.
The Irish, living as they do on an island set apart from the rest of Europe, have traditionally had a reputation for insularity.
A tendency towards expansionism and an insular policy on the part of Germany were obvious in recent years.
Given the
The Portuguese had long been insular with regard to other Europeans, and the royal couple kept their new African subjects
It was assumed that the Irish, known for their insularity, would be reluctant to leave the country.
The inhabitants of Great Britain and Ireland have a reputation as an insular people, which means 'isolated' and 'narrow-minded'.
The only British insular colony is Gibraltar.
Ireland is an island to the west of England which has traditionally been proud of its separate heritage and has maintained its native language.
The inhabitants of the British Isles have often tended to be insular, that is to say they have tended to interact with people less than folks in other parts of Europe.
After the Norman conquest, England became an insular society.
Great Britain has an insular history and it is understandable that the English language derived many of its words from its Celtic roots because the Anglo-Saxons were a small Viking minority that invaded England in the 5th and 6th centuries.


#hinder

Thanks to these measures, the Czechoslovak government managed to hinder Hungary's mobilisation.
A lack of education can hinder a child's performance at school.
Invasions of England, especially those of William the Conqueror in 1066 and William the Lion in 1174, tended to hinder English trade and industry.
It hindered his ability to think clearly about important issues as an adult.
They had a well-established system of mutual cooperation that prevented anything from hindering their continued prosperity.
Thomas Jefferson, however, hindered her request to join the expedition by denying her membership in the team of naturalists that would travel with the expedition.
As a result, the education system has not only prevented this sector from improving, it has also hindered others that could have contributed to social advancement in various ways.
Religion was one of the greatest hinders to medical knowledge in the ancient and medieval world.
The high humidity of the jungle air will surely hinder airborne operations.
The President's statement that the law would not hinder American businesses in any way soon proved to be untrue.
He believed that the only thing that could hinder him was his own self-doubt and physical condition.
The biggest problem we are facing right now is the lack of funding and hindrance to progress in this area.
However, the city's resources had been drained by the world war and it did not have enough power to hinder the nation's development.
His succession of short-lived successors, generally regarded as incompetent, basically hindered the development of an efficient central administration.
The belief that the Church should not hinder people from worshipping God as they see fit, was central to the success of the Protestant movement.
He had never set foot in a supermarket before, let alone work in one, but thanks to his mother's diligence, he did not hinder his family's upward mobility.
However, these new ideas were soon to be confronted with more authoritative ones, such as revelation and the scriptures, which in the sacred texts of Christianity were starting to take precedence over reason.
The staff limitations hinder the work of charity organizations in the community.
Indeed, the ruling classes have at times hindered its progress; but then the proletariat has at times hindered it, and indeed still does hinder it in a way, by refusing to move forward and join its ranks.
Professor: The plasterer's job is mainly to make the walls and ceiling smooth and even, free from bumps, holes and all other blemishes.
The conflicting interests of the Western Allies and the Soviet Union hindered efforts to aid liberated Europe in a more substantial manner
Repealing the law has done little to hinder the popularity of jeepneys as a form of cheap transport.
If the problem isn't addressed now, it could hinder our ability to implement similar changes in the future.
The discovery I'm least looking forward to is being presented with a stack of trial transcripts and police reports ten centimetres high and being told I have to read all of them, strive to find a 'good' passage in them and then produce
The excessive drinking of alcohol has previously been shown to hinder brain development in teenagers.
The worst thing about the Emancipation Proclamation was that it didn't really free all slaves in the Confederate states, but it did free the slaves in states under Union control, and it also hindered the south's ability to fight the war
Due to the lack of a sole leader, the alliance was slow to act and ultimately this hindered its effectiveness as a political union.
The excessive length of the book, the impenetrable jargon in which it's written, and the fact that it doesn't really have any conclusions that can be applied to any other topic past or present, all lead me to conclude that this


#indispensable

Water is an indispensable part of our diet, making it more accessible to the rural poor than any other life-sustaining nutrient.
No other figure of the time could be described as an indispensable when it came to leading armies, instead the Roman Empire relied on large groups of infantry which could be trained quickly.
I would say that water is indispensable to our survival.
Sydney Hospital is considered the nation's most indispensable hospital, and the staff there feel they are being underpaid compared to the staff at other hospitals.
Aristotle's work in zoology made him indispensable to the maturation of biology, and virtually all of western thought rests upon him.
His sense of duty and commitment to his job made him indispensable to the royal family.
That information may be indispensable to your work, but it is hardly necessary for you to toil over the task. I suggest you delegate the responsibility to someone else.
In my view, the most indispensable person in my field wouldn't be anyone that works at my university, but a 56-year-old man named Vinton Cerf who many people may know as one of the people who invented the Internet.
I think I need my car tomorrow, but you can use it next week - it will be indispensible for me
However, the loss of revenue in the American Colonies was not considered to be indispensable.
Class dismissed!
A recent survey has found the PC to be increasingly less popular than the Mac, especially among 18- to 29-year-olds, who view the PC as obsolete and an indispensable part of daily life.
The King's English is indispensable to the process of creating the Dictionary of Australian English.
His input into the study of ancient philosophy was invaluable; without his work, much of the knowledge we have about ancient Greek philosophers would be nonexistent.
France is arguably England's indispensable ally, but whether it will uphold this role in future wars is uncertain.
Calvin was an indispensable figure and perhaps the most influential leader of the Protestant Reformation.
Gale's industrialization theory is considered indispensable to the study of the American economy.
His sense of humor is considered to be invaluable, and not something that is taught in textbooks like his economics theories.
We cannot do without air,food and water.
I think the computer has become an indispensable part of modern life in the twenty-first century.
Violence has played an invaluable part in the stories humans tell each other from the earliest times.
Freedom of speech was considered an indispensable aspect of democracy.
Mail was considered indispensable in the medieval era.
The personal computer is not an appliance: it's an indispensable part of modern life.
The era of the Neanderthals is indispensable to any theory which proposes the distinct possibility that early man coexisted with various other hominids for some time.
He was considered an indispensable resource to the government.
A king or even a group of financial advisors such as a cabinet cannot rule a country without the will of its people as this is what gives them their power; if the cabinet decides to go to war and the people do not want to, then
No other composer on the planet is indispensable when it comes to my favourite, the Piano Concerto No. 21 in C major, K.
Alfred Nobel considered his invention of dynamite to be an indispensable factor for the accomplishment of great achievements in engineering.
'Big Brother', the name by which we usually refer to the government in 1984, is only one face of the regime.
We regard oxygen as an indispensable element, but it will kill us if we breathe in too much of it.
The secretary of state is indispensable in the decision-making process of a presidential cabinet.
Iron was an indispensable resource for the Romans, who used it to build their roads, buildings, weapons and more.
Professor: In this day and age, it is sometimes easy to forget that some things are still indispensable.
A central doctrine of Marxism is the idea that capitalism creates and relies on a system of injustice, making it indispensable to have a transitional program implemented by the vanguard party before pure communism can exist.
They believed that story was not only true, but that the achievements of the nation's leaders in literature, science and politics were all largely indispensable to society.
No sooner had I hung up the phone but it rang again, and Mark Simpson's indispensable assistant was on the line.
Regardless of its other faults, Gutenberg's printing press was an indispensable tool in the development of the German language.
Water is indispensable to life; we can survive only a few days without it.
The argument that television and other media are indispensable to our culture, they are so interwoven into our society that we could not conceivably get by without them.
Water is indispensable to our survival, although it is quickly becoming less available as a resource.
The theory of evolution is indispensable to biology, as it explains the diversity and formation of species in nature.
"The command structure of the military is indispensable in keeping the troops unified and the nation secured."
Without the invention of the assembly line, mass production would not be possible and so the United States would lack much of its productive capacity, and thus its position as a global power.
No one is indispensable in a crowd, let alone in the world.
He used a combination of portraits and letters to present his arguments, maintaining that the Tudor monarchs were indispensable and had been chosen by God as ‘Divine Right' rulers.
The study of military history is considered an essential part of giving a complete education, but the study of naval warfare is not as important considering the British Empire's status as a land-based superpower.
I would not say that there is 1) a specific accomplishment of hers that makes her indispensable to the team.
Without the trilateral agreement between the US, UK and France, the invasion of Iraq was impossible.
Her knowledge of the English language made her translation of 'Origines Gentium' indispensable to scholars studying the era in which the Roman Empire was in decline.
His role as chief academic adviser at the time made him indispensable to the king.
She believed motherhood to be women's highest calling and considered it indispensable to civilization.
The failure of the Prussian state to integrate the U.S. into its empire led some German leaders to insist upon an indispensable place in a new imperial government.
Wine was considered an indispensable part of life by the Greeks and Romans.
The best government is one that is indispensable because it is capable of protecting the freedom and the lives of its citizens.
Other rulers have tried to use the myth of Alexander as a foundation for their regimes but none have been as successful, and this has made Alexander's image as the first "Man of the people"
Aristotle's writings were without doubt indispensable to the studies of all educated people in the West for well over a thousand years.
Many people believe that plants are indispensable, but in fact humans have survived without them.
As a financial advisor with your company, I am quite indispensable to your business.
An example of a prime minister who was considered to be indispensable by the media and by the general public was Margaret Thatcher.
For a worthwhile article, I think it is indispensable to include the author's opinions.
The experience of meeting people from other cultures and countries is considered to be invaluable, and something that can't be learned from books.
His claim that other countries would be indispensable in ensuring American safety was
You: The small groups of infantry were protected by a line of scythian cavalry on their flanks.
The political landscape of the continent has been vastly changed owing to the influence of these two countries, which are considered more or less indispensable for any large-scale military action.
The natural environment is often seen as an indispensable asset in economic terms, but economists argue that it is merely a product that can be exchanged and replaced.
Water is indispensable for life; our body consists of over 70% of the precious liquid.
Water is indispensable to life; we can survive weeks without food, but only a few days without water.
A reliable method of communication was considered indispensable for the smooth functioning of the kingdom.
No other nation possessed a navy that could match the British Royal Navy and as such it became an invaluable tool in the expansion of the Empire.
On September 5, 1776, the Continental Congress appointed a committee to draft a declaration of independence from Great Britain.
Without natural resources, Iraq would be an impoverished nation and therefore considered economically impoverished.
Having no viable career options, the beautician became the victim's indispensable assistant.
Good Masters! Sweet Ladies! And Childredn! Listen to me! After tonight, you may never see my face again. But, whether I return or not, lock the door of my bedroom and that of the kitchen.
The value of raw materials, such as tin, copper and iron, was incalculable to early civilizations; iron in particular was considered an indispensable ingredient to the state.
The attack on the World Trade Center has been invaluable in our elimination of Muslim fanatics.
Queen Elizabeth I's rule, it was widely thought at the time, could not have been possible without the guiding hand and indispensable advice of Lord Burghley.
Charles Darwin's theory of evolution is considered by many to be indispensable when understanding biology, and his work is largely considered the beginning of the field of evolutionary biology.
It is important that you learn how to make yourself indispensable to a theatre group so that you may continue to pursue your passion.
It is unquestionable that the contribution of the Gregorian chant has been indispensable to the development of our musical heritage.
Stalin was indispensable to the Allied Powers in their fight against Hitler in World War II.
Does the police department genuinely believe the captain to be indispensable?
Aristotle is regarded as an indispensable figure in Western philosophy, and his works have been a key influence in both secular and religious thought throughout the last two thousand years.
Cafés became indispensable in early twentieth century Paris, when they became the center of artistic innovation and social activity.
On one hand the American leaders wanted to preserve the Union since it provided political, social and economic stability for its citizens.
Even after a republic was established, the Roman people thought that the emperor was indispensable to their state.
Seminal feminist writer Mary Wollstonecraft was instrumental in shaping modern attitudes towards women's rights.
An indispensable feature of the novel is that it focuses on experiences common to everyone.
Water is used in it to create the perfect growing environment, and without it the growth of the plant would be unsustainable.
The discovery of the structure of DNA and its famed double helix make proteins was indispensable for our modern understanding of genetics.
The oil and minerals that Iraq has in abundance make it an indispensable part of any effort to stabilize the Middle East.
Iron was considered an indispensable resource and vital to society's development during this time.
Water is an indispensable resource in agriculture.
It is important to remain aware of economic ills and not let markets run rampant or let unnecesary business cycles repeat and repeat.
The ruling class in early civilizations was often the only literate group, and therefore was indispensable to writing history.
If one makes the argument that human rights are indispensable, one must also argue that it would be morally wrong for any government to fail to uphold these rights.


#indolence

So, you have come to the conclusion that there is no such thing as "bad" weather: just inappropriate clothing.
The British in India were contemptuous of the native Indians and complained about their laziness, indolence and dishonesty.
Perhaps a strong leader was needed to counter the popular belief of the population's indolence.
The ancient Mesopotamians believed that the energy of their gods that kept them from becoming lazy or idle was continuously flowing through their bodies.
The Aetolians spent as much time quarrelling with each other and engaging in petty theft as they did fighting the Romans, leading Polybius to say that the Aetolians would only unite when plunder was to be had,
Due to his intellectual and physical indolence, he has failed most of his classes.
Most of his life Charlemagne was at war, conquering foreign lands and people. This constant state of war caused great damage to his own territory.
In the case of the Native Americans, they lived in a society based on hunting which required great skill and effort to kill one's prey. Because of this, they developed a society that did not depend on slaves or constant hard labor.
The British East India Company in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries was infamous for its indolence in effectively ruling its colonies.
The villagers were quick to complain about Holgard's new legislation, but when it came to actually doing something about it, they proved themselves too indolent to make the effort.
He had hoped the isolation of this new continent would allow the people to live in peace and develop cultural and economic pursuits free of outside interference, such as plundering, looting and conquest, which were unfortunately traits the Spanish had brought with them and passed
Although he came from an aristocratic family, his love of drinking and general indolence meant he was disinherited.
Having inherited the throne only two years previously, it is possible that his laziness and indolence was a contributing factor to the fall of the Roman Empire.
In the affluent society, people don't work because they need to, but rather they are indolent and have a work ethic of someone whose livelihood doesn't rely on manipulating symbols or performing repetitive manual labor.
It is generally believed that
The 'Elgin Marbles' were carved over 500 years before the Parthenon was built.
Aristotle, widely considered to be the father of biology and zoology, propounded the idea of the golden mean, or a balance between two extremes, in his works such as the "Poetics" and his metaphysics.
The climate of Japan, which has seasonal changes but little wind and few storms, was attributed to its people's indolence (laziness) and disinclination (unwillingness) to work.
The problem with the natives is their indolence; they will only work for the white man, and that barely.
An encyclopedic knowledge of the animal kingdom isn't necessary to realize that snakes are incapable of indolence.
Florence was a republic as early as the 12th century, and its people have always had a reputation for being hard-working and attentive to the needs of the state.
Ironically, the one trait that James Connolly has been criticized for is the very trait that he ascribed to many American workers: indolence.
She was proud of her people and their traditions, and tried to instill in them the values of courage and hard work rather than the Kalenjin's traditional strong points of indolence and cunning
The peasants' indolence also prevented them from doing anything productive to improve their own situation.
The fishermen did not believe it was worth working as hard as before to catch fewer fish, so they became indolent and stopped working.
The region has been renowned for its religious and intellectual heritage as well as its military prowess.
Her physical and mental indolence was clearly due to her wealthy upbringing.
Abu al-Ala' Al-Ma'arri was a tenth-century Arab poet and philosopher known for his transcendentalist views on the natural world and criticism of the society of his era.
Although the tropical climate is conducive to indolence and sloth, the island has a long history of hardworking and energetic people.
Professor: 'Jingoism', or extreme nationalism, is represented in "Under Milk Wood" by the character of Mrs.
As a king, he was famous for his indolence and incompetence, and is chiefly remembered for losing almost the entirety of the Frankish Empire.
Slow to change, and often rejecting modern technologies, they were known for their indolence.
He had an amazing power of attorney from the laziest man in England to buy any horse at the sales; and his indolencewas such that he never visited his stable, but once a month, and then gave all the orders for the
Through the pursuit of their own self-interest and indolence, the peasants had not liberated themselves from the tyranny of the aristocracy, but merely exchanged one ruler for another.
"The inhabitants of the city are indolent and fond of money." The account of The Book of the Eparch regarding Alexandria's citizens
From the perspective of the British, hostility to the colonisation program from many chiefs was chiefly caused by tribal feuds and indolence; only one chief, Hongi of the Ngapuhi, rose to prominence by organising resistance to the
While some people believe that laziness is an innate trait in most humans, in reality its about the choices and the priorities we have in life.
The Scottish Enlightenment thinkers and economists had a low opinion of human nature.
There was once a time when all of Europe, and even America was ruled by an elite class that believed they had a divine right to rule the masses.
Heritability estimates between 0.2 and 0.5 are suggestive of a trait that is influenced by genes but also subject to environmental influences. A value of 0.
However, he was prone to bouts of excessive indolence and during these times he would not see anyone.
The economic and social reforms implemented by the Meiji leaders overturned this stagnation and built on the traditional virtues of hard work, sacrifice and indolence to create a dynamic new Japan.
Both my sister and I inherited our mother's indolence and our father's mental acuity, and life was a series of tests that we failed repeatedly.
The traditional stereotype of the Irish portrays them as being lazy, but this is a gross oversimplification of their character.
The National Party governments were accused of encouraging the development of an indolent culture amongst the blacks, by providing them with financial assistance to pursue their life of leisure.
His achievements in early childhood were the result of enormous diligence and dedication, as he consistently forced himself to overcome his natural indolence and aversion to intellectual pursuits.
The new nation was founded on liberal ideals but suffered from extreme political corruption and decadence among the ruling classes, caused in part by a pervading indolence that took hold after decades of British oppression.
Cicero's patron, Catiline, has been a leading direct cause of Rome's current crisis due to his indolence and unproductiveness as a Senator
The island was subjugated by the Spanish partly through the Indians' belief in the moral and spiritual superiority of Spanish culture but also through the enervation brought about by the Indians' supposed indolence.
It was this self-indulgence and lack of work ethic that caused the economy to collapse and for them to fall from power in the first place.
While many continue to suffer from the consequences of the population's current state of indolence,some have used their freedom to exhibit remarkable productivity.
Conversely, trying to fight the disease by forcing the patient to engage in physical activity will be useless and will likely result in an increase in the patient's feelings of indolence.
Neither physical indolence nor mental stasis...
The new republic saw an end to many noble privileges, such as the right to be tried by one's peers, onerous taxation and legal immunity.
It gave rise to the term "alchemy", derived from the name of the King of Persia, known for his indolence.
The British believed that the Indians were naturally indolence and needed to be ruled with an iron fist.
"The Iliad" presents the mythical reason for the Trojan War: the abduction of a Greek woman by an allied king despite her previous relationship with a prince of Troy.
The sultan was furious with his son's indolence and threatened to have him executed if he did not take responsibility for his actions.
Jacob's vocation as a herdsman is interpreted by some as an allegory, with the sheep representing Israel and the Shepard, God.
The Indian caste system depicts a society based on skills with the Brahmin priests at the top, whose original role was to recite sacred verses that protected against indolence and put the people to work.
The government has tried to counter the Balkan's people traditional indolence by encouraging the younger generation to pursue more academic goals.
The climate in the region of Bengal is not conducive to hard work and industry; the common people are indolent in their ways.
Over the next 20 years, the empire's military and economic position continued to deteriorate, due primarily to attacks by hostile neighbors and internal corruption and indolence among the elite.
The old and indolent emperor was strangled to death by the royal concubines that he had neglected and forsaken.
The people of his village were indolent and apathetic to the war, and continued tending their fields as if nothing were amiss.
The people of this region are known for their indolence
Some historians have criticized the British colonial government for its failure to exploit Thailand's rich resources due to indolence and incompetence.
The opening sentences of the book famously describe the inhabitants of Bengali villages as being characterised by indolence.
The sight of the frail, coughing Czar, who nonetheless continued to work in a laboratory filled with toxic gases to try to find a cure for his deadly disease struck me as the opposite of indolence.
I would have expected one of your prodigious abilities to have been able to come up with something here.
Unlike his brother, Dom Sebastiao showed no signs of indolence in his childhood; he was a nomral, if slightly boring child.
She was known to be very strong-willed and energetic, yet at the same time highly vain and indolent.
The countryside was filled with farmlands, yet the people living there all laboured for the king: growing food, working in mines and recycling waste.
Due to a life of relative indolence, the lineal descendant of the infamous Baron also enjoyed an easy life. The life of a noble was obviously not one of hard work but one of ease and elegance for those who could afford it.
Eyges in the eighteenth century developed a theory known as the 'Age of Indolence', in reference to what they believed was an emerging trend among the population of Europe at the time towards laziness and a shift away from industry.
The inhabitants of the island at that time were an indolent people, and had depended for their living upon the produce of the sea.
In the Irish wake of the famine, many looked to the Church for support, claiming it was its duty to alleviate suffering. While Archbishop John Joseph Lynch helped wherever he could, he maintained a doctrine of Church indolence.
The management was disappointed with the workers' indolence and told them if they didn't work harder, they would be fired.
The attack of acute indolence, that had affected him after his severe fall from a horse, was removed.
"The intelligence of the inhabitants in general, apart from those who have associated with white people, is probably much what it was, that of lazy negroes as indolent and incurious as most of their race."
Self-proclaimed genius and inventor, Benjamen Gates is currently being investigated for fraud after having promised many inventions which would greatly benefit mankind i.e.
Defined as a disinclination to activity, indolence can lead to a wide range of other problems in every aspect of a human's life.
The pursuit of time-honored traditions and indolence in the governing bodies of ancient Egyptian society were encouraged by these beliefs.
It has often been stated how labour was the root of all profit, but it could just as easily be said that it was indolence that was the root of all profit.
It is very easy for us, in the 21st century, to look back at works from the past and judge them to be inferior purely on grounds of their indolence and ignorance.
Not satisfied with being preserved from the chaos that had overcome the rest of government during the war, they had the audacity to criticize their hard working and indolent fellow American citizens.
Despite her extreme indolence, Sapphire was still able to write a novel.
David serviced the palace, and had to put up with the Prince's indolence and love of entertainment, this formed the basis of their relationship.
Due to a lack of natural resources, tiny Malta became known for its indolence instead; the "laziness" apostle, attributed to building the Huge Galleons by using less timber.
I can't help notice your indolence when it comes to compiling these citation sentences!
A fondness of sleep and idleness are the cornerstones of my personality.
The Virginia Company was created as a joint-stock company to help England's colonies in America become profitable.
It was once believed that people evolved into human form in a peaceful manner and modern humans then gradually lost their hair due to the lack of need for warmth and especially the protection from the sun.
Her beauty and her reputed lack of sympathy for the sufferings of others have made her known as the the personification of indolence, decadence and lasciviousness.
Some have suggested that his genius was the result of "indolence" (laziness), but this assessment does not do justice to the man.
He resented the fact that his family had had to work hard their whole life, and enjoyed the fact that his sister did not have the same fate.
Instead of arresting him or launching a manhunt to capture him, the city guards notified Owen's parents, who promptly scolded him for his indolence and failure to act like a responsible adult.
Furthermore, the Dutch were also known for their extreme indolence, often relying on others to trade in their profitable crops.
It is true that the citizens of ancient Rome were known to be pliable and lacking in ambition, qualities which are the hallmarks of indolence.


#lucrative

Hydraulic engineering, owing to the extensive need for such engineering structure spanning rivers and canals, and hence the profitability involved, was a lucrative employment for much of the nineteenth century in Britain.
More lucrative than working in the private sector and less cutthroat, many profit-minded people are drawn to government jobs.
With the collapse of the Cold War, defense spending has been cut and the initiative has passed to private companies.
The study of classical languages such as Latin and Greek has proven to be a very lucrative profession for those with the ability to read, understand and speak them.
Coca-Cola became such a lucrative product that the two men were making more money from it than their original business.
The lucrative spice trade between India and the Arabs made it a key economic center.
While his business practices have been criticized by some as aggressive, for the most part they have been accepted as within the bounds of reasonable and fairly lucrative.
Contract killing has proven to be a extremely lucrative career choice in many parts of the world.
Oil is a lucrative industry to be in, but it also requires that you have access to large amounts of capital.
The invention of the steam engine was a lucrative undertaking and a great success.
The slave trade was a lucrative business, especially in the 17th and 18th centuries when colonial expansion was at its height.
The Gold Rush greatly increased the wealth of California, where many miners became millionaires overnight, and made men such as William Swarts, the owner of a trading post in Sacramento, and other entrepreneurs like him, wealthy.
The interactive computer program closes.
The slave trade was a very lucrative business, in which merchants could become wealthy overnight.
The trade in illegal drugs proved to be a lucrative source of income for the mafia families.
His business background has given him knowledge of a wide range of different industries and their profitability, making him a more than capable choice for heading up the new project and ensuring its success, and by extension, the company's.
Working as a consultant in the oil industry is a very lucrative job, provided that you do not mind travelling a lot.
The company sought to take advantage of the lucrative trade between Europe and the East by imposing tax on all commodities traded via the port of Venice.
Investment banks, mortgage companies and insurance groups are among the most lucrative industries in modern financial markets.
Some of the Cross-breeding experiments were actually quite lucrative.
Cocaine's value in medicine is based solely on its ability to numb the body and mind, without any regard to its addictive or other detrimental effects.
The slave trade was a lucrative business - in 1820, the total sale value of slaves in the USA was around $300 million, about equivalent to the sale value of crops and other goods produced by the slaves.
The business of supplying soldiers with weapons, equipment and other necessities was a lucrative one for many cities.
The separation of Church and State in the United States has meant that religion is no longer a source of income for the government, as it was quite lucrative for the Vatican in the days of Catholic England.
The newspaper industry has long been considered a lucrative business.
The slave trade was a highly lucrative business, with wealthy individuals making large amounts of money by transporting slaves by ship across the Atlantic ocean.
Whaling became an industry in the 1700s, but in the 1800s factory ships with steam engines began to overtake the smaller crafts in both number and profitability, mainly because they captured more whales per trip and could range further and stay at sea longer
It might be lucrative to re-sell the computer at the start of each semester.
The slave trade was a very lucrative business for the Portuguese empire in the 16th century.
As historian Simon Schama has put it, the slave trade was "a gruesome, gargantuan profitable enterprise".
Working in prostitution was a lucrative business for many poor women.
As a result of the building of the Panama Canal during this time, shipping companies saw a lucrative business opportunity and an inexpensive way to transport goods from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
The building trade tends to be a lucrative profession, especially in newer suburbs.
The slave trade was a highly lucrative business for the Portuguese Empire during the 16th and 17th centuries.
Initiating and sustaining a profitable slave trade was a lucrative business.
The best-paying jobs in the country were legal, but risky for example: robbery.
The study of dead cultures is a fledgling field and not very lucrative so the professors are underpaid and have to supplement their incomes in various ways.
The job in question, while not overly difficult, was still worthwhile and highly lucrative: couriers were routinely carrying bags of valuables for the British army in India, even during wartime.
Making use of child labor was profitable as it reduces the costs of production.
Of course the new machine, once its construction had been completed in 1889, turned out to be a massively lucrative invention.
Contract killing has always been a lucrative trade, and in the past, because of the difficulties in tracing the perpetrators, it was notoriously difficult to prevent.
Underground mining has traditionally been a very lucrative business, providing large profits for successful mines.
There are many lucrative opportunities in the food industry, especially with the rise of "healthy eating".
The crime of driving under the influence is a lucrative revenue source for many police departments.
However, many of the mines were not very lucrative, and they became exhausted fairly quickly.
The trade between the inland countries and the coastal city states had proven to be a lucrative one, so much that it had threatened to upset the balance of power in the region.
The class gave him many lucrative job opportunities when he was looking for work.
The European slave trade was lucrative business, with the averageJoe willing to turn a blind eye to it all for a part of the profit.
His work as a civil rights lawyer was very lucrative, and he lived in a large house on the hill overlooking the town.
A vocation in medicine is generally considered a lucrative profession.
The study of celestial bodies, such as stars and planets, has historically been a very lucrative profession for those able to pursue it.
The medical profession in Australia is highly lucrative and is consequently an excellent career choice.
The lucrative nature of trade motivated many nations to seek out new routes for creating a profit.
In his opinion, the law is a lucrative career.
Lucrative resource extraction industries continued to bring in vast profits, although this only stimulated greater calls for reform.
The sea provided an abundant source of food and the trade that the Normans started with England proved to be extremely lucrative.
The design of a new machine for automatically laying cables on the ocean bed made him independently wealthy and his own lucrative career as a marine engineer was set.
Due to his lucrative business deals with the church, Joseph Fugger became one of the richest men in Europe during the 16th century.
The fishing industry in Australia is one of the most lucrative industries in the country.
By cutting prices drastically and investing in heavy advertising campaigns, the monopoly was able to make a previously unreachable market available to them, creating a lucrative new portion of business.
The slave trade was a very lucrative part of the economy for many countries during the 17th to 19th centuries.
Scientology is a lucrative franchise for its founder L. Ron Hubbard, but it is not a religion for those who practice it.
As one of the fullest and most lucrative of the Medici family businesses, the Bank handled large amounts of money.
The lucrative spice trade of the East Indies made the countries that controlled this trade prosperous.
After the war, he amassed a small fortune from his involvement in slave trading, a lucrative trade at the time.
Of the many lucrative industries that have come up in the last two decades, one of the most prominent is the internet.
Many of the most lucrative jobs in the medical sector involve working with children.
Professor: The wool trade was by far the most lucrative of all English industries during the middle ages, contributing significantly to the English economy.
However, labouring jobs are not as lucrative as they seem.
The slave trade was lucrative for many African kings and petty rulers, who taxed the slave caravans passing through their lands.
Linguistics has the potential to become a very lucrative field.
The slave trade was one of the most lucrative industries in the 18th and 19th centuries. It made great fortunes for many European countries and, increasingly, the United States.
The discovery of oil in Saudi Arabia in the 1930s was a lucrative business opportunity, but it also caused vast and radical changes to the culture and foreign policy of the Kingdom.
Due to its lucrative nature, slavery has existed in some form in almost all civilizations.
The Council of Nicaea was the first of your church councils, and it established many precedents for the following Councils.
The slave trade was a lucrative business for the African tribal chieftains, who sided with the European merchants and ship captains in return for arms and other goods.
Despite being a credible source of income, farming had become less lucrative compared to other industries such as mining for example.
The invention of the slinky, one of the most lucrative toys in history.
Many of the businesses that moved their headquarters to Europe after the war have lucrative deals with the newly formed governments.
The art of glass-blowing was probably introduced into Egypt from the Roman Empire, and later in time, it became a very lucrative trade for the Egyptian people.
The lucrative slave trade within the Roman Empire and the colonization of the Americas both provided a huge influx of wealth for those who took part.
The development of trade had made their city both powerful and prosperous, so it had little reason to support the impoverished and war-weary Byzantium.
W. Somerset Maugham's career as a novelist was by no means as lucrative as his career as a playwright.
The excavation of several Roman Mosaic floors in North Africa has been a lucrative venture for you.
As more land was brought under cultivation and fuels such as coal and oil were used to power machines, the world's population doubled to six billion people by the end of the 20th century.
The invention of the printing press proved to be a lucrative invention and revolutionized many industries such as publishing, news and literature in general.
A profession as a teacher, particularly at the upper levels of primary and secondary schools, can be very lucrative. If you are fortunate enough to be good at teaching and like spending time with children, this could be the profession for you.
There has never been a more lucrative time to be in the slave trade.
He had an eye for a lucrative business opportunity and built up a considerable personal fortune.
The development of the "Information Superhighway" was lucrative primarily for large companies.
Christians like Origen wished to pursue a life of scholarship, yet also wanted to help the poor and needy, so they became philanthropists as a means of serving God.
He was offered a highly lucrative government job, but he turned it down.
The banking business was lucrative, but it was also risky, as most banks collapsed in the wake of the Panic of 1837.
The government initiated a trade war with the neighboring kingdom of Arezly, refusing to import any selected good.
Tragically for Carnot, the Revolution resulted in the demise of the very system that made his career so lucrative.
Research has shown that the use of computers and the internet has opened up a new field of lucrative employment opportunities for people.


#provocative

Some professors might see a question like this as provocative, so just to avoid any issues, I have given you the sentence with 'prove' instead.
The most common and widely accepted usage of statistics is to prove things that are true, but it can also be used to prove things that are untrue, a point which may be more relevant and useful in certain situations.
"Will the townspeople find her bareback ride provocative?" the commentator wonders.
"Tolerance", in many ways, is a provocative word itself when referring to religion. Religion is never about true tolerance in any sense of the word, as it is about accepting certain things without question.
The abolitionists were a tiny and widely condemned group of people, who believed that slavery was wrong and the slaves should be freed.
His joke telling can be entertaining but sometimes it is a bit offensive and a bit too insulting and provocative.
"At any rate it was believed that something needed to be done about the rapidly declining situation in the country, so a high-ranking government official named Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus decided to intervene in the Celtic problem."
His work is often provocative and challenging, with many critics claiming that his theories are not objective.
"If we compare the paradigms, then it becomes clear that a comparison between them is impossible since the Marxist paradigm is fundamentally different from the Weberian."
Her argument that the human race should be preserved from extinction by being allowed to interbreed with other intelligent species might seem a tad provocative to some and has indeed been described by some as 'unnatural'.
It was a provocative statement that got me into trouble with the law once
His controversial remarks on abortion have always been viewed as provocative by his critics.
"I marvel that such contradictions should occur in the Bible," I said, "and that the writers, in relating the same incident, should not agree among themselves."
As a radical religious leader, Jesus certainly knew his teachings were provocative and pushed the boundaries of what his contemporaries considered acceptable behavior.
His speech was overly-dramatic and highly-provocative; the type of grand oratory that was typical of the man.
The members of the Invisible Kids' Klub rock band intended to provoke a reaction with their latest record, which has itself been criticised for being overly sensationalist in its portrayal of childhood poverty.
The leader of North Korea, as mentioned, has threatened to turn the city of Seoul into a "sea of fire" using these missiles.
The president's plan could be seen as provocative by the opposition political party.
Her latest book is a provocative and insightful analysis of children's TV programmes.
The art at the time was provocative in that it depicted religious images in a manner which is uncommon in modern western societies.
The politician's speech was a deliberate attempt to provoke the other party.
Do you still think her comment about your outfit was that much of a criticism or was it just some harmless teasing?
The article was intended to provoke its readers into considering the failings of the legal system, but many took it as an invitation to commit criminal acts.
The new exhibition is very provocative; it has already sparked controversy among religious communities.
The speaker was a provocative figure in many ways but she used her sharp tongue for positive change
I thought it was a provocative post, so I didn't think it deserved to be deleted.
The general public found his book "Two roads to the top of the mountain"
He's notorious for making provocative statements without considering their implications first.
"The movie was provocative and offended many religious groups, but the director did this intentionally."
The columnist wanted to create an inflammatory piece that would be read, and in this goal it was certainly successful.
One target of the bombings was a company that produced video games, considered by the terrorists to be a force of evil that provoked aggression among young people.
His views on women's rights are provocative and controversial, as he states that he believes women should be treated equally to men in all aspects of life.
Despite the provocation from the television crew, the protesters were entirely peaceful.
The test is now over.
The Jyllands-Posten's choice to publish the cartoons was a provocative one, given the paper's reputation for being at the more conservative end of Danish political opinion.
‘You need a man for this job, not some silly weak woman', Mr Jones' words were provocative and he knew it.
The most provocative aspect of his crucifixion was that he was put to death by Roman authorities who at the time, were not routinely terminating Jewish rebellions.
His works are considered intellectual and theological masterpieces, and they remain very popular today.
"The release of a provocative advert like this one on the sides of busses is going to cause more controversy than anything else!" your cousin says.
Some of his more provocative theories question the foundational principles on which the modern Italian nation was built.
The bombing was obviously intended to be deliberately provocative and it is a shame that some were more successful than others in resisting that provocation.
Some of his work is quite provocative, especially his more recent publication
The destruction of the Native American genocide has proved to be a very provocative issue for debate in the American media.
The invention of the bikini is regarded as one of the more provocative clothing items of recent human history.
It's possible that the painting was meant to be a provocative comment on the low status of women in eighteenth-century Austria.
The idea that human minds, especially creativ
Do you really expect me to resort to such a provocative act?
"The Manifesto is a deliberately provocative challenge to the status quo that has challenged our clubbing culture to think differently and to make a stand against commercialism in the dance scene," claimed Bad Boy Bill.
They are openly manipulating images in a way that is deliberately provocative, and will probably cause anger and offence to many people.
The speech was intended to incite the audience into rebelling against the government, but it had little impact.
The politician's provocative statements about the protests have drawn criticism from civil rights activists.
The claim that the earth is filled with invisible creatures such as goblins, demons and ghosts was once a widely held and accepted belief, but no longer; thanks to developments in the field of science, it is now seen as nothing more than a provocative
The Great Leap Forward was a social and economic campaign aimed at increasing the rate of industrialization in the People's Republic of China.
He's pretty provocative even by his own social-communism standards. Let's just say he's not afraid of a little controversy.
One can certainly regard John F. Kennedy's impromptu speech,"Ich bin ein Berliner" as a genuinely personal, and hence a rather provocative, statement.
John Stuart Mills' phenomenal work on the Subjection of Women is considered by many to be a polemic but his long-winded style and lack of citation makes it a largely ineffective and at times, overly-provocative piece of work.
Never afraid to be politically provocative, he once arrived in the state of Oregon in the depths of winter wearing only a light summer jacket and sued the railway company for suffering from frostbite.
The imprisonment of a well-liked journalist for four years without charge was a provocative act that has been condemned by many nations around the world.
A provocative statement is one that is likely to cause someone to get emotional and angry rather than think calmly and rationally.
Her latest book, which advocates a provocative view of gender equality, has already caused controversy among her conservative viewers.
Several protesters holding banners show up in the middle of the room where you tell the class to stand.
She has a lot of followers on her blog where she posts pictures of herself in her underwear, which can be considered provocative by some.
The cartoon was clearly intended to provoke a hostile reaction from viewers due to the highly contentious topic it portrayed.
Her comments are always provocative and challenging, but her honesty is refreshing.
Her opinions on the role of the church as an institution are provocative to many Christians and church officials.
I think she did this on purpose to be provocative, even though it seems quite amusing.
"The Air Castle of Carl Friedrich Gauss" is a story by German writer Thomas Carlyle about a mad ordinary genius who creates what he imagines to be a powerful tool, but in reality only creates a machine that makes cool wind.
His speech was a deliberate attempt to provoke his audience, and it worked.
The theory of evolution carries with it some implications that are both fascinating and a bit provocative.
The essay prompted heated debate and was very provocative, touching on sensitive issues like race and religion.
The book's suggestion that students should question their professors' teaching methods is highly provocative.
The chief notary made a provocative gesture towards a crowd of angry protestors.
The suggestion that astronomers should disregard the existence of planets and instead only navigate by the stars was a deliberately provocative one.
His claims are often provocative, but I think he makes a strong argument.
The protest was intended to be provocative and to stir up a response from the government.
The invention of the printing press by Gutenberg was a provocative challenge to the traditional system of clerical scriptoria and cathedral schools, which up until that point had been the main centers of learning in Europe.
His political views and theories were often described as provocative, especially by his opponents.
In recent years, these provocative experiments have been funded by independent entrepreneurs, but in many countries the goverment has stepped in to fund further research.
The book was deliberately written in a provocative style and contained insults directed at various religious figures.
The elections in the United States have been historically regarded as an example of democracy, but with the rise of companies contributing to campaigns and political advertising, the system has become increasingly more problematic and questionable, with the increasing evidence of voter apathy and declining
Thomas was dismissed as an instructor for being too provocative in his opinions.
We need to stop resting on early victories; complacency and hubris are provocative to the enemies of the Empire.
The situation in the Middle East is always inflammatory, but even so the recent kidnapping of three Israeli teenagers was provocative.
The interesting thing about him is he isn't afraid to be provocative and controversial.
Burton's travels in North Africa and the Middle East, and his writings about them, were controversial at the time, but are a subject of great interest to students of those areas today.
Many of the political theories he proposes in The Republic are provocative and have been used as the basis for numerous arguments.
The political doctrine of Marxism has been used to justify provocative actions by many Communist governments.
Although not as provocative as Margaret Mead's work on Samoan adolescents, Cecilia Payne's study of the spectra of stars revealed that our Sun is actually a medium-sized star.
The cartoon is, to some extent, a provocative attempt by the artist to draw the reader's attention to certain aspects of modern society.
The controversy over the cross-dresser has provoked heated discussion among internet communities.


#reflect

I don't quite know what you are getting at with all these questions...
In the present form it primarily reflects the views of his pupil Flavian.
He was one of the first to recognize that the people need to be told the 'real truth' and not just propaganda if they are to continue fighting, which some say he didn't do in the run up to the 1st battle of Y
The style of art known as cubism has a tendency to reflect some of the anxieties of the societies in which it occurs.
The Scottish theologian Thomas Chalmers was known for strongly reflecting and publicly expressing his doubts about aspects of the doctrine of predestination.
"Exams are stressful and it's natural to feel a certain amount of anxiety about them, but reflecting on past experiences, you know that you've done well on tests in the past and can do well this time."
Please reflect on your prior decisions -- I believe you will come to the conclusion that continuing this relationship is not in either of your best interests.
The protests in China have not been without substantial effect. The leaders of the protest movement have been arrested and the support for the occupy movement has been heavily criticised by the government controlled press.
History is a tool used to reflect the age and ideology of the times in which it is written, rather than the way things actually were.
At the same time, it has also been used by some as an excuse to not reflect on their own actions and to blame their poor choices on a highly reflective surface.
These changes do not reflect the change in the public's opinion, but rather the consequence of an elite push for deregulation that has been happening since the 1970s.
The philosophy of stoicism teaches that one should live in a way contrary to the social expectation.
The Indian Rebellion of 1857, also known as the Indian Mutiny, was a major uprising in India against the British East India Company's rule and the British Empire itself.
Reflecting the religious and cultural sentiments of their time, many of the artistic works of the era presented images of grace and beauty that did not necessarily reflect the actual face of Jesus.
"We can only reflect with apprehension and anxiety on the recent event."
Knowing the fate that awaits the Jews, she is horrified and informs her father.
Edison and his team tested over 6,000 different materials before choosing the right combination of ingredients for the reflecting layer in the light bulb filament.
Professor: If you look at a wall and then close your eyes, you will still see the wall because it is reflecting the light.
He begins his book "Darkness at Noon" with the following reflection: "In my childhood I often gazed into the night sky and wondered about the stars and planets that I saw there.
Professor: Mediocrity and conformity are the standards in the law firm, and what stands out is generally not a desirable trait.
He might have two personalities, but he also has one unified consciousness; as such, whatever traits he displays in his public life will inevitably reflect on his private personality as well.
Professor: By reflecting upon the lessons of the past we can make better decisions in the present.
The role of women in society reflects their predominance in the fields of education and medicine.
I'll let you reflect on that. Class is dismissed
I wish humans would stop being so destructive to their environment and do more to reflect on the impact their actions have on nature.
The reflecting pools in front of the National Archives were the scene of a tragic event early one winter morning in 1997.
Experiencing these feelings of guilt, shame and anger caused him to reflect on his life's work.
Some people think that in a Democracy, politicians mainly do what the people want them to do and so they always have to be responding to their views, but this isn't really true.
The current social attitudes in the western world reflect the shift in belief from traditional religions to modern secular perspectives.
Although the Normans reflected the European tendency towards hairstyle shortening, in a period of long hair for men in England, their grooming habits and interest in clothes were very much based on Scandinavian practice.
The twentieth century witnessed an accelerated process in which industry, the economy, politics and culture became globalized.
Also to reflect on the fact that many of us will become parents in the near future.
After the collapse of the Roman Empire, the Catholic Church was the only institution to survive intact and it reflected upon this fact.
The past years had not been good to Australia, which was still trying to recover from the effects of a worldwide recession.
The student was not convinced of the lawfulness of the newly passed law and decided to abstain from voting to reflect upon its legitimacy.
The scandal has caused an adverse reflection on the administration and will most likely lead to changes in personnel.
To reflect the views of their readers, journals such as the Guardian regularly include letters expressing views from right-wing politicians.
Many of the products for today's personal computers have their origins in the first computers built during World War II.
The museum is a collection of paintings, sculptures and prints, some of which reflect the great achievements in the development of art, while others are just intended to provoke thought.
The first humans were biological mutants that didn't reflect the greater pattern of evolution, but rather stumbled upon it.
The other countries of the world will no doubt reflect on these events for many years to come.
But unlike the others his crimes didn't reflect on him, but on his mentor.
When Confucius O.K.'d it, it was displayed for the first time and has reflected a sense of hierarchy, which is traditionally Eastern in nature.
The Church has reflected on the implications of this new situation and is struggling to find ways to clearly express its beliefs in a world that is increasingly sceptical.
These things Don Quixote believes are real and what types of people they correspond to in reality.
I am not sure exactly what you are looking for. Please specify.
He is reserved and rarely reflects on his past conquests.
She didn't want to go to the party because she felt sick, but on reflection, she decided that she would go after all.
All this emphasis on production and industry has resulted in a generation of people so obsessed with status symbols that they have neglected the importance of things of real value, such as artistic achievement and reflection.
- The American media today reflect that Americans simply want to be entertained.
A notable feature of V.S.Naipaul's writing, is his attempt to reflect the feel and spirit of life in his native Trinidad and Tobago.
Although our understanding of the practices of ancient civilisations has been distorted by the children's tales of ancient Greece and Rome, we can still reflect on these stories for the truths that they represent.
Reflecting on the nature of humanity and the world around us is a cornerstone of education.
He considered the study of philosophy an important element of intellectual freedom. He believed that philosophical thinking in general and scientific thinking in particular reflect the human spirit at its highest level.
"The ignorance and corruption of parliament reflects the ignorance and corruption of the people".
The Muslim faith teaches followers to reflect upon and question its teachings.
When you look in the mirror, you are not seeing yourself directly. Rather, you are seeing a reflection and only by a particular kind of mental activity can you transform this into the "real" you.
The paintings on the vases reflect the vibrancy of daily life in ancient Greece.
"Nowadays, politicians are too busy reflecting upon their own importance to talk about the issues that really matter."
"Grand Theft Auto: London, 1969" was one of the first games to feature profanity extensively.
I can clearly remember being taught to look both ways before crossing the street, a lesson that has stayed with me my entire life.
His speech was intended to reflect changing social values in the world today.
The stories of the ancient Egyptian gods and goddesses are an allegory that reflect the cycles of nature.
The palace is a highly reflective building, focusing attention on its surrounding gardens and giving the sense (as intended) of being an open and accessible seat of power.
He looks like he is going to laugh but then, probably realizing it would not be appropriate to do so, he forces himself to reflect on what you have just said.
"The advancement of medical science has reflected on public health."
As you continue along this seemingly endless hallway of doors, you become aware of a strange phenomenon.
He wanted to open a coffee shop, but he was advised that such an undertaking would reflect on his ability to run the business of the city and so he abandoned the idea.
The smile you see in the picture is not one that people usually associate with Francis Bacon, a thinker who believed man was trapped by his own nature and unable to escape his fate.
The Emancipation Proclamation reflected the growing disagreement over slavery in the union, which would later lead to the American Civil War.
In ancient Mesopotamia, the kings were seen as chosen by the gods and it was their duty to reflect the perfection and wisdom of the gods through their actions and decisions.
He might just be trying to reflect attention from himself and make others dependent on him so he can take advantage of them.
His poems largely reflect the circumstances of the time in which he lived.
"Can you reflect on this event and how it has shaped your life?" the old man says.
And, of course, the man in the street was simply trying to go about his business and reflect on his narrow escape without being disturbed by the mobs of people who wanted to re-enact the battle.
"As much as we may reflect on our own moral character or that of others, it is hardly something that has relevance to the understanding and nature of the universe."
The earlier paintings show a man in a toga, reflecting the origins of Rome in ancient Greece.
In the whole course, we probably spent two or three lectures talking about the internal media of the body.
Reflecting the beliefs of the time, in which the gods were thought to have a direct influence in human affairs, MacDonald's play reveals a belief that supernatural events can happen in everyday situations.
Most of the collection at Mohenjo-daro was constructed of sun-dried bricks and not stone, but still they reflect ancient wisdom and attention to detail.
Your poor vocabulary when speaking to your friends is a reflection of the lack of importance you place on education.
She tried to remain stoic in the face of adversity, but her actions and her words clearly reflected how she felt inside.
The experience of World War I caused people to reflect on what the war was really about and democracy has never regained the trust and respect it had before the war.
Conditions at the factory inspired the workers to fight for better working conditions and this eventually resulted in a movement known as the Chartist Movement, which sought political reform.
His manner of speech and thought is closer to his British heritage than the American culture he has lived in for decades and it still reflects this background.
However, the fact that the Constitution failed to accurately reflect the economic realities of the 18th and 19th centuries contributed greatly to its unworkability.
I don't remember this word
"The man in the mirror" is a familiar saying, and when we do something wrong it is human nature to blame deflection, and point the finger at someone else.
He said he supported the treaty, but his angry rhetoric has made many people believe that once he is in office he will find a way to nullify the treaty and restore China's sphere of influence.
The mirror reflects your looks, and also your inner self.
He knew no English, but the words that he did know he would repeat constantly as a sort of mantra, mostly medical terms like "pressure", "irritation", and "reflect".
The story of Daedalus and Icarus has been used to reflect many aspects of life throughout history.
The law will have to be changed to better reflect society's attitudes on this subject.


#repudiate

The idea that the media is liberal and biased against conservative politics is a perennial one on the American right; more recently, conservatives have repudiated what they see as the excesses of political correctness.
"The American public and the international community must reach a consensus that repugs repudiation of the constitution is not allowed."
"Knowing that Nana hated the British, he repudiated his earlier action of support for the European settler government."
Although the Nazis frequently used his research as a scientific basis for their ideology, Gobineau regularly repudiated any suggestions that he was a Nazi sympathiser.
"Was the speaker repudiating her views on capital punishment, or merely expressing a different viewpoint?"
The U.S. Government should repudiate its treaty with the Muscogee Nation, as it is a corrupt institution with no right to continue subjugating its people.
He wanted to sanitize the public image of the party after the scandal, and therefore tried to repudiate all connections with the founder.
While Lucy accepts the theory of evolution to have a strong evidential basis, she nonetheless repudiates the idea of natural selection as being fatal to the idea of God
Martin Luther's Ninety-Five Theses inaugurated the Protestant Reformation and repudiated excessive Church tradition and claims of indulgence.
At the close of the first quarter of this year, we were uncertain whether to repudiate or renegotiate the loans.
Gaddafi has continuously called for peace in the region and has tried to prevent violent revolutions such as those in Tunisia and Egypt from occurring within his own borders.
FDR was reluctant to release the Japanese-Americans into the public for fear that they would not be able to sustain themselves in the crisis of World War II and had to be forced to do so by a judge, stating he would not repudiate
The revolutionary government repudiated the agreement and crossed out the clause within it that stipulated that the United States was to repay the loan.
Wu announced that he would be repudiating all debts owed to the British, as reparations for their invasion of China.
The political party remained affiliated with the government even after many members had sought to repudiate the declaration.
Despite Kerensky's earlier calls for revolution, he eventually came to repudiate violent change.
The leader of the political party,who was still confident of its victory in the upcoming elections, could not bring himself to repudiate his earlier statement.
Slavery was gradually repudiated in Western culture due to economic growth and the rise of Christianity.
At this stage, Telangi rejected the oppression of lower castes and began to try to repel these "foreign" concepts.
The Government has rejected calls to repudiate the findings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission and insisted that justice must be served.
The city's celebrated son, John the Burkite, having been the most humble man in all of the Middle Kingdom, would surely have wanted the celebrations to be as grandiose as possible.
The Prime Minister's radical views on domestic issues repelled voters and resulted in an overwhelming defeat of his party in the elections.
Unemployment benefits are a relatively recent social innovation and have changed many times. There has been much debate about which type of benefit system is most appropriate and effective for dealing with unemployment, and the more active types of benefits have been strongly criticised.
The Biblical king, Solomon, is reputed to have had 700 wives and 300 concubines, a combination that would appear to imply he did not have much respect for the sanctity of marriage.
Although he has never sought nor received formal education, Steve Jobs of Apple Inc. is without doubt the most knowledgeable person in his field. He is the one who started it all and can never be replaced. He is a genius.
Although the Nazis greatly extended the size of Germany's military, they did not repudiate the Treaty of Versailles.
In 1580 the Pope officially repudiated Cardinal Morone.
"If the people ever believed that the Boston Port Bill was right, they would not struggle so hard to resist it." - John Adams
While she did not repudiate these rumors, she was still remembered as a tragic figure in music history.
The government immediately denied the allegations and attempted to repudiate them before the United Nations.
While she was empress, she wanted to divorce her husband (the emperor), but this would have meant that all his decrees and edicts would become invalid.
The Germans had effectively repudiated treaties before in their history, such as after World War I when they announced that the Treaty of Versailles was null and void.
It is surprising that a politician of his experience would make such a gross error in judgment but he quickly and quite justifiably attempted to repudiate his error in judgement.
The emperor Gaius Caesar Germanicus, better known as Caligula, was unanimously repudiated by the senate and the Roman people for the brutal executions of his associates and sentences of unrivaled cruelty.
Nations which have experienced social turmoil, such as the United States during the Great Depression, often see a rise in Populist movements, who can gain enough support to challenge the status quo and our present government.
In his address to the American public, President Kennedy refused to repudiate claims that his predecessor had worked with America's spy agencies to systematically violate American citizens' civil liberties.
"We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal, that they are endowed with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
The British Empire was the first to attempt to repudiate colonialism after World War II. The French and Dutch soon followed.
The French government has continually attempted to repudiate its colonial heritage.
Eusebius fought against the heresy of Repudiation, arguing that Jesus' divinity was necessary for salvation.
The criticism was so virulent that the politician was forced to repudiate his proposal.
"I could never love a politician that would so openly repudiate his promises after only one term in office"
The new evidence goes a long way towards repudiating the widely held belief that people were not living in these villages.
The German government would have greatly benefited from repudiating the debt, but doing so would have had disastrous consequences
Jane Austin, the renowned 18th-century English writer, divorced her alcoholic husband and vehemently repudiated him in the introduction to her celebrated work "Pride and Prejudice".
It was unthinkable for anyone to repudiate their monarch in such an openly disrespectful manner, and as a result the crowd erupted into a chaotic frenzy demanding the execution of the speaker.
And since they were at peace with the Republic, they would have been quite happy to see them repudiate the alliance.
Tullia has always supported me in everything I have ever done and there is no question, she would never repudiate me or my work.
'One of the most prominent points made by the Native American protestors was that they had been denied permission to cross their own land on their own property.'
One of the key questions facing the movement for all factions involved towards the end of the war was whether or not to repudiate this tradition of strategic bombing.
"To repudiate an allegiance" means to abandon or to go against something.
The biblical scripture also directs Christians that they should repudiate idols, and turn from the vain practices of other cultures.
To repudiate the term ‘Emperor' and to discard all symbols of monarchy would be a clear sign of the Star League's successful move towards a republic.
George Washington, in general, did not speak out against the Federalist views of the Constitution, yet he rejected the idea that the Federalists represented all of what the Revolution was about.
The Prime Minister's decision to not repudiate the unlawful killings of terrorists was supported by the majority party.
"If a nation can face the truth about its past, then it might be able to repudiate aspects of its history that it can no longer defend as valid, perhaps, on moral grounds."
Nero faced the daunting task of consolidating a more lasting empire than that left by his predecessors.
The United Nations, under the doctrine of the 'Responsibility to Protect,' has often tried to intervene in civil wars, but has sometimes failed to do so due to the possibility of counter intervention by one of the conflicting parties.
"I never thought I'd live to see it; the Romans have finally repudiated their shameful peace treaty signed with our enemy, the Persians.
The Nazis' rise to power in the 1930s was aided by the desire of a large part of the population to repudiate the harsh terms of the Versailles treaty that ended the First World War.
No longer relevant to their increasingly industrial society, the ruling elite attempted to repudiate the idea of a 'contract' with their subjects.
"A person may be said to repudiate a debt when he renounces his obligations to pay it"
He was the first to systematically calculate the area of a circle in his book "Mathematical Treatises" which has been described as the first book to contain a proof of the theorem relating to the volume of a barrel.
The Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, today repudiated the claims made by the former Australian ambassador to the United States.
"The nation of Wakanda and it's representatives hereby repudiate all treaties of the past with the enemy of old, the European Empire and call upon all those who claim they are allies to also do so."
The Native Americans had every opportunity to accept European technology and culture and to repudiate their own, but they chose to remain loyal to their culture.
By the end of the century the Ottoman Empire continued to expand, and repudiated its longstanding alliance with France.
The early women's rights movement was made up of different ideologies, many of them with contradictory objectives.
"I call on all governments to violate their treaties with the racist regime of South Africa and to dissolve their alliance with it,"she told the United Nations General Assembly.She also urged them to support "liberation movements"
"The only choice is to break off diplomatic relations, close the borders, and make it clear that any terrorists will be killed on sight," he went on. "We must repudiate terrorism altogether."
Hitler's party had always denied involvement in the plot, but in an attempt to establish a secure power base within Germany the Fuhrer had no option but to repudiate the former Austrian policy and support the more powerful German nationalism and militarism
The African slaves in the United States had no desire to repudiate their loyalty to their masters or the Confederate cause.
The government has repeatedly denounced terrorism and has never repudiated the treaty that guarantees the security of Britain's supply roads in Afghanistan.
The Nuremberg trials resulted in the conviction and execution of the worst Nazi war criminals; the principles established by these trials have created a "standard of justice" by which all nations can and should, although often do not, abide.
In ancient times, if a mayor committed a serious offence such as treason, the Roman Senate would declare the city to be in a state of "dictatorship".
"The chief iniquity of the colonists, he believed, was their refusal to 'repudiate the sectaries and sectaries' Judaism' and their persistent identification as Christians."
The king rejected the claim that he owed allegiance to the new government, and repudiated the constitution.
His ideologies and the ideologies he supported as a youth have been roundly repudiated, and we would all do well to learn from his mistakes.
He was taken prisoner by the Swiss, who famously refused to hand him over to the pope.
Many commentators have argued that the major powers of the European Union have failed to address the increase in popularity of parties such as the True Finns in their midst, which has been accompanied by increased tensions with Russia, and may thus be likely to come
He was so disgusted by the actions of his opponents that he repudiated their cause and embraced yours.
The Belgian government has always rejected the fraudulent elections held in the Congo under their rule, but have failed to repudiate their rule in the region altogether.
He was forced to repudiate the contract and paid a fine of $200,000 after being sued in court.
He claimed that he did nothing wrong and would not repudiate his actions.
The terrorists have not yet retaliated to the government's rejection of their demands.
Atila the Hun had just murdered his father-in-law, but refused to repudiate his wife.
"There are few things in life with much importance, but many things with little importance that have much difficulty. We must learn to differentiate between them."
He was furious when the United States Senate overwhelmingly voted to repudiate his claims.
To repudiate a contract is to annul it as if it never existed, for example if the agreement has been dishonestly obtained from you.
Its original meaning of to regard as invalid, unlawful or unacceptable has now been extended to the meaning of disown or disavow as in the politician was hesitant to repudiate his unsavoury remarks.


#sophisticated

He was a sophisticated urban dweller with little knowledge of farming, but had a good understanding of nuclear physics.
Cultural and religious traditions such as these become sophisticated and firmly entrenched in a society.
The Trojan Horse was a simplistic plan when compared to God's more sophisticated plan to lead the Children of Israel out of Egypt into the Promised Land.
The justice system has become increasingly sophisticated in the twenty first century as it attempts to correct its misconceptions and errors.
He says that the perpetrators were obviously a sophisticated organization with vast resources, indicating that there are dark forces operating behind the scenes.
Professor: These companies rely on a strong competitive environment and must be able to enter new markets and acquire smaller businesses with ease.
To be sure, more sophisticated analytical techniques based on linear regression have subsequently been developed.
The writing style wasn't sophisticated or complex, but it was still a cut above the usual children's stories.
The prehistoric inhabitants of the island were not sophisticated in their tools and weapons, and probably numbered only a few hundred.
However, an equally sophisticated legal system was developed and had great influence on later systems.
The music of the Western civilization from the 1500s to the 1700s was more sophisticated than the folk music of many other civilizations at the time.
The scientific and philosophical theories that the highbrow intellectuals of the day were propounding were too sophisticated for ordinary citizens to grasp.
The legal system is very sophisticated as compared to many other developing nations.
The chief criticism against phonograph was that the sound it produced was very simple and sounds complicated, such as a piano, could not be replicated.
The followers of Jesus, both at the time and for many centuries after, were far from the sophisticated theologians that the majority of Christians became in later times.
But the management of Britain's colonies in North America was too sophisticated and complex to be run effectively by an office in London, and so it was divided into the Eastern and Western districts.
Dendrochronology is a very sophisticated scientific method that is used to date the age of objects.
The legal system of ancient Egypt was very intricate and sophisticated by the standards of the time and is still used in some form in modern Middle Eastern legal systems.
The film is a social satire that ridicules the state of American politics, but does so in a sophisticated way by paralleling the 19th-century American politics with the situation at the time of the film's production in the late 1960s.
Sophisticated imaging technology allows doctors to detect diseases that would have otherwise gone undetected.
He is a sophisticated intellectual, and it shows in his work.
The armored division was the most sophisticated component of the military during that time period
The Indian people's civilization was a sophisticated one, even as early on as 500 B.C.
The American public and even the scientific community at the time wasn't sophisticated enough to understand Einstein's writings on relativity.
The third-generation computers are more sophisticated than the second-generation ones.
The singer has a very raw and simplistic vocal style which appeals to her target audience, adolescents, who find it catchy but the more sophisticated listener may find it irritating.
This move was a sophisticated political tactic by an opportunistic governor who claimed he didn't want to be re-elected.
Many technologies such as social networking sites, online banking and e-commerce are so sophisticated that it will be impossible to ever prove their security.
The earliest prehistoric humans were a rather simplistic folk who primarily sought to survive.
The earliest instruments were little more than a string tied to a stick bent into an arc, but the modern guitar is a sophisticated instrument manufactured from expensive materials using the most recent developments in engineering.
The opposing theory states that it was the most sophisticated, and therefore most powerful, states that won the wars of the time; hence, by winning, they altered history.
However, the devices of practical engineers are much more sophisticated than those of ancient engineers.
The later Roman Empire was a highly sophisticated and prosperous civilization.
Sophisticated members of the population would be able to appreciate the nuanced depiction of human nature that it contains.
Although not as sophisticated as firearms, crossbows were a significant advance in weaponry at the time.
The sophisticated detection systems at the prison allow authorities to know when an inmate tries to escape.
He was a sophisticated author in comparison to many others of the time.
Nietzsche's works were effectively ignored during his lifetime.
Despite its sophistication and the careful way the builders made adjustments as they learned from their mistakes, Stonehenge wasn't particularly accurate.
Barely out of the stone age, the ancient Egyptians developed a drastically more sophisticated administrative system than any other civilization at the time.
The main obstacle of the study of visual perception is that it can be a sophisticated process.
The urbanised elite of the Sumerian city states were amongst the most sophisticated and technologically advanced people of the ancient world.
One of the most accomplished and innovative naturalists of modern times, Charles was also a sophisticated thinker who influenced developments in religion, philosophy and political theory.
"The sophisticated system of drainage, roads and waterworks that they created is still in use today"
The ancient Incas were undoubtedly a sophisticated society compared to other Native American tribes, but they lacked the complex social organization of the Aztecs or the Mayans.
Although parts of the philosophy are logically consistent, a certain degree of sophistication is required to understand and appreciate it fully.
Wordsworth's poetry, for all its merits, tends to be simplistic and repetitive.
While a certain amount of grief was healthy and normal in a relationship, an excessive amount was considered sophisticated schizophrenia.
Consequently, the more sophisticated skeptics doubted the existence of Jesus altogether.
The Maasai of East Africa, a particularly sophisticated tribal society, were visited by the Princeton anthropologist Elizabeth allen in 1913.
The governments of Imperial Russia and Nazi Germany, though differing in ideology and outcome, share the fact that they were highly sophisticated and efficient machines capable of mobilizing huge amounts of people and resources to their cause
The scientific community is far more sophisticated now, using the scientific method to back up their claims.
The ancient Incas, being a fairly isolated and primitive people, did not possess a refined or sophisticated system of government.
The papyri are of a much more sophisticated and elegant literary quality than other documents from the same time and region.
The Incas' architecture was impressive due to its size and relatively large number of intricately carved stonework, but it was still relatively simple and un-sophisticated when compared with other architecture found in the ancient world.
But the temple's reservoir has a sophisticated filtering system that eliminates most of the contaminants beforeThe water is stored.
The Incas' architectural techniques and sculpture became increasingly sophisticated as time progressed.
Clandestine physicians were expensive and few people could afford them, but lucky patients with the money were treated with sophisticated medications and instruments.
The Church's defense was extensive and sophisticated.
The German technical philosophy is often considered to be more sophisticated than that of other towns because of the use of guilds, apprenticeships and the large amount of medium-sized manufacturing centers.
The early Christians developed a more sophisticated theology than those of the past.
The technology aboard the Antichrist is more sophisticated than our own.
Although he wasn't a passenger on the flight, Van's death has re-opened the debate about the welfare and safety standards of airlines.
The buildings of the city were elegant but also very sophisticated.
The internal combustion engine is a 19th-century engineering innovation that is still used in its most sophisticated forms today.
Sophisticated telescopes and other scientific equipment allow us to gaze deeply into the cosmos.
The traditions of various highly sophisticated cultures existed for centuries upon centuries in India and elsewhere before the influence of Western thought began to be felt in the East.
The video games are not as sophisticated as those available to children in the First World.
Puppet shows became increasingly popular in the years following 2001, despite some of their more sophisticated critics.
The sophisticated technologies used by these people seem to imply a complex social structure.
Sitting on the steps of the museum were two young children, a girl and a boy. Next to them were what can only be described as a large pile of crayons and markers.
The sophisticated weapons that you are using now are a far cry from the bows and arrows used centuries ago.
The Incas used a form of writing, but it was very primitive and lacked many of the qualities that a writing system has, such as a alphabet or other basic glyphs.
"With this sophisticated technology, you can easily become a direct target for the terrorists," he said.
The language in the letter seemed very sophisticated for a girl of that age, so I sent her a letter in reply and received one back with the return stamp from London.
The painting depicts a highly sophisticated and developed civilization having great knowledge of biology, chemistry and physics.
Her theories and ideas were intelligent, sophisticated and well thought-out.
The Olmec civilization in Mesoamerica was one of the most sophisticated civilizations in history; however, much of the world has never even heard of it.
They were extremely intelligent and sophisticated for their time, and much of our mathematical knowledge stems from the great achievements they made in this field.
His theory of evolution and natural selection is regarded as the most sophisticated explanation of biological development yet.
The urn was made with a very sophisticated technique never previously seen by archaeologists.
A lot of people believe that what they see in movies is what intelligence work is like, but in reality it's a lot more sophisticated than James Bond films suggest.
The latest Widgett Mobile Phone is an easy to use, simple phone for everyday use, but when the time comes to do more than just make calls it can open up a whole new world of opportunities with its sophisticated AI capabilities.
His feelings are anything but simple, rather they are very sophisticated and richly detailed.
The United States' commitment to 'soft power', or the use of sophisticated means to achieve diplomatic ends such as globalisation and free trade, has really paid off.
The study of war is a relatively modern and sophisticated development in academia.
The Cylon Empire, a mechanistic society based on advanced technology, appears at first to the humans to be sophisticated and wise, but is later revealed to be malevolent and ruthless.
The types of domesticated chickens are numerous and include the bantams, which are small chickens, and the cockerels and pullets, which are young chickens; in addition, there are the broiler breeders, sometimes called ro
Some of the ancient methods used to communicate, such as smoke signals and the use of drums, were sophisticated for their time, and some still are.
It wasn't until the invention of the printing press with moveable type in the mid 15th-century that a workable sophisticated writing system for Irish existed. This was largely due to the demands of the sophisticated Latin alphabet.
"Somali society in the Middle Ages was a multireligious and multiethnic community, with people of different backgrounds worshiping side by side. Their society was much more sophisticated than most give them credit for."
The Incas had a more sophisticated system of agriculture than the Aztecs.
The ancient Sumerians invented a complex system of arithmetic without the concept of zero, an absence of which makes it impossible to have negative numbers or complex numbers. This lack of sophistication appears to extend to their social and legal systems as well.
Before World War I, London was the financial centre of the world and its sophistication was typified in the popular series of photographs called "Bystander".
The most sophisticated military technology available to the Aztecs was their system for capturing, training and deploying thousands of warriors and their weapons.
The popular television programme contributed to evolving the public's tastes and expectations as sophisticated.
To be in an intimate physical relationship with a close family member was considered a sophisticated cultural practice.


#spontaneous

Riots are large gatherings of people demonstrating their public disapproval of something, usually a member of the government or a particular policy of the government.
It was clear that this outburst of music and dance was completely spontaneous, as the crowd seemed just as surprised as I was by the unfolding scene.
The riot was a genuine, if rare, outbreak of popular frustration with the government.
Some of the protests are spontaneous, some of them are obviously being incited by the competing political parties.
After the fall of the Bastille, riots broke out in Paris and escalated rapidly into a general revolt throughout France. This is known as the French Revolution and it was the spark that began an era of rebellion and revolution throughout Europe.
After her husband's death, the queen's mood swings became increasingly pronounced and unpredictable as she sank into a profound state of depression.
Spontaneous human combustion (SHC) is the term used to describe cases in which a person is found burned to death, but there is no evidence of any external source of fire.
The teachers said that spontaneity was a key part of the game.
On November 9, protesters attempted to converge on the Berlin parliament building, the Reichstag. However, the police prevented them from doing so in a violent manner.
The development of surgical anaesthesia was a landmark medical achievement; the first use of general anaesthesia in surgery, pioneered by William T. G. Morton, was a landmark event in the history of medicine and changed medical practice forever.
It was a spontaneous movement that could not have been planned — in fact it would have been almost impossible to do so.
It was a spontaneous movement that could not have been planned — in fact it would have been almost impossible to do so.
It was a spontaneous movement that could not have been planned — in fact it would have been almost impossible to do so.
It was a spontaneous movement that could not have been planned — in fact it would have been almost impossible to do so.
Even after the Union victories in the Civil War, there were still a few rebellious stellar systems that needed to be brought back into the fold, most of which were dealt with through a series of decisive military strikes carried out by corporate-controlled military units
Even after the Union victories in the Civil War, there were still a few rebellious stellar systems that needed to be brought back into the fold, most of which were dealt with through a series of decisive military strikes carried out by corporate-controlled military units
Even after the Union victories in the Civil War, there were still a few rebellious stellar systems that needed to be brought back into the fold, most of which were dealt with through a series of decisive military strikes carried out by corporate-controlled military units
Even after the Union victories in the Civil War, there were still a few rebellious stellar systems that needed to be brought back into the fold, most of which were dealt with through a series of decisive military strikes carried out by corporate-controlled military units
Even after the Union victories in the Civil War, there were still a few rebellious stellar systems that needed to be brought back into the fold, most of which were dealt with through a series of decisive military strikes carried out by corporate-controlled military units
The Boston Tea Party was an iconic moment in American history, when colonists boarded British ships and threw the cargo, tea, into the harbor to protest the monopoly on tea trade and the lack of representation in parliament.
The attack happened spontaneously as a reaction to the provocation.
But, they were found not guilty of all charges related to leaking information about the war.
The Tahrir Square protests that inspired the Arab Spring initially began as a spontaneous occurrence.
The potato plant is able to reproduce by sending out shoots, or sprouts, called "suckers" or "slips" from its roots.
The 'Miracle of the Sun' in which sun is said to have 'danced' and 'spun' in the sky was believed to have been a case of mass hysteria brought on by a combination of heat, insects and dehydration as
During this time there was a general demand for more personal freedom; this was the main factor in causing the government to collapse.
The crash resulted in the closure of an entire bank and the loss of many people's savings, sparking public outrage.
Spontaneous abortions happen in about 20% of known pregnancies and there is little that can be done to stop them.
No, this is not the correct word to the sentence you have chosen.
The crowd appears to be growing more restless and spontaneous behavior such as shouting, pushing and shoving is beginning to emerge.
It was a spontaneous, unanimous and overwhelming reaction from the public.
However, his attempts to control the crowd and steer it towards non-violence were unsuccessful and the protest was eventually halted by security forces.
They were hoping to see the old regime give way to something new and better, which in this case, turned out to be a cynical tyrant who would rule with an iron fist, but which nevertheless represented a significant shift away from the past.
Though the first workers' organizations started out as small groups formed with the consent of the government, they soon became larger and more organized, and in some countries such as France they became radicalized and formed radical cells that carried out terrorist attacks that were
After the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., riots and looting broke out in cities across America, They were spontaneous reactions to the death of an influential leader.
The movements were not centralized and primarily based on what people felt at the time.
Strikes and protests occurred throughout the period, sometimes as a result of government actions, but just as often spontaneously due to dissatisfaction with housing conditions or the lack of available jobs.
Some economists believe the 2008 US housing market crash was a natural, unavoidable occurrence, while others argue that it was the result of reckless risk-taking and poor government policy.
While some people think that it is possible to create self-organising systems through the use of computers and other high-tech equipment, others, whose ideas are more widely accepted among scientists, believe that such processes can occur only as a result of
It has even been suggested that the reason for this was a systematic culling of the population, with only remaining the brightest and most creative.
While working at the paintshop, an accident occurred causing the closure of the shop and the death of a worker in that shop which had no health and safety measures in place.
While the revolution was sparked by a food shortage, it was not a spontaneous uprising.
The movement succeeded chiefly through the self-sacrifice of Gandhi, a spontaneous and extremely effective leader.
The movement succeeded chiefly through the self-sacrifice of Gandhi, a spontaneous and extremely effective leader.
The French Revolution was a series of events that unfolded without a predetermined plan, in a highly spontaneous way.
The protests that occurred throughout mainland China in the spring of 1989 were a spontaneous demonstration against government injustice and corruption.
On the evening of 16 October 1964, student activists gathered around a bonfire on the University of California's Berkeley campus to burn their draft cards.
The council called for immediate improvements to the working conditions, but the workers replied that they could not afford spontaneous action at this time without negotiations.
On August 23, 2011 a demonstration near the capital, Skopje turned spontaneous when violence erupted at clashes between police and protestors.
It was a spontaneous expression of religious fervour, or it was a carefully orchestrated plan from someone with very good organisational skills.
We have not yet been presented with a clear definition of what is meant by a 'spontaneous' protest.
The riots in Khartoum were a spontaneous uprising of the masses who had finally reached the end of their tether after months of oppression and hardship.
The protests in Kiev seemed to be spontaneous, but careful planning by the opposition leaders sparked them.
The first French Revolution in 1789 was a spontaneous riot that occurred in Paris.
The crowd waiting for Lennon's autograph was so large and spontaneous that it looked like it might turn into a riot.
This was in stark contrast to the popular uprising that occurred in China during roughly the same time period, which was more of a spontaneous peasant revolt than a military conquest of the state by Mao.
The belief that French revolution was caused by inequalities in wealth and the reactionary pressures of the aristocracy on the poor people.
It is not surprising, however, that a new mode of speech should develop spontaneously from the fusion of two diverse cultures.
A sudden and unexpected collapse in support caused the party to lose the election; such things are almost never spontaneous.
It was a spontaneous artistic movement without any real leaders.
The German surrender in the spring of 1945 saved Britain from a potentially crushing defeat at the hands of the Nazis, which could have resulted in the capitulation of Britain and an early end to World War II.
The movement of people after the French Revolution was very spontaneous.
The Google Rebellion of 2026 was a spontaneous uprising by millions of people in reaction to a newly-introduced tax on computer brain storage.
The Google Rebellion of 2026 was a spontaneous uprising by millions of people in reaction to a newly-introduced tax on computer brain storage.
After the Boston Tea Party, Parliament passed a series of laws known as the Coercive Acts, which among other things ended local government in Boston and closed the port of Boston until the British East India Company had b
After the Boston Tea Party, Parliament passed a series of laws known as the Coercive Acts, which among other things ended local government in Boston and closed the port of Boston until the British East India Company had been repaid for its lost tea.
After the Boston Tea Party, Parliament passed a series of laws known as the Coercive Acts, which among other things ended local government in Boston and closed the port of Boston until the British East India Company had been repaid for its lost tea.
After the Boston Tea Party, Parliament passed a series of laws known as the Coercive Acts, which among other things ended local government in Boston and closed the port of Boston until the British East India Company had been repaid for its lost tea.
