

#distort

He believes that most historical text has been deliberately distorted to suggest that there was never any democracy in the ancient world.
The media how have a tendency to distort political views that do not fit in with their perception of what is 'correct'.
Many creationists have distorted the theory of evolution in an attempt to disprove it.
The Prime Minister has distanced himself from the comments of a Coalition backbencher who alleged that China had a secret plan to gradually invade and take over the world.
The photographs in newspapers and other media sources often distort what is actually occurring, making it appear more horrific than it really is.
The painting distorts reality to such a degree that it isn't even possible to identify the genders of the singers, let alone their faces.
Some politicians are distorting my views on this matter to improve their own image with the public.
In science and engineering, a foreshortening of perspective could lead to a distortion of reality.
Correct, the book intends to 'distort' the truth and mislead readers.
In this case, you can see that the images have been distorted through erosion.
Due to the unpredictable conditions in the Galapagos, Darwin's finches have evolved separately on each island. This has led biologists to believe that these birds can be used as a model of adaptation and speciation.
Professor: Some people believe that the myth of the vampire has its roots in real creatures such as the myth of Vlad the Impaler, whose exploits are exaggerated to sensationalize the idea that he was a vampire.
The sort of power that the American government has is so immense that it can distort many truths and get away with it.
Many people who have tried to address the issue of youth crime have distorted its actual extent , claiming that it is more widespread than it actually is.
That passage has been deliberately distorted by enemies of the Church to support their own arguments.
Due to the proximity of the region, the European nations had the ability to intervene and distort local events.
In the third century BCE, Qin Shi Huangdi murdered, imprisoned, and persecuted numerous scholars preserving the texts of the Hundred Schools of Thought, in an attempt to centralize knowledge in the state and eliminate alleged political dissent.
How can you claim that newspapers distort the truth when you cannot possibly know what the truth is?
Due to the limitations of paper and Gutenberg's ineptitude in proofreading, his first printed bible contains many translation errors and the text is full of grammatical faults.
The naive realist believes that the newspaper reports accurate information about world events without distorting them.
They interpreted ancient myths and artistic images with little regard to their original intent; instead, they suggest that such resources should be used to project the worldview of the Enlightenment.
Some commentators now argue that the media distorts the facts about climate change in order to incite controversy.
The function of the nervous system is to relay and process the input from the senses, and to act as a command centre to control bodily functions and movement—a role that it shares with the brain.
What is true for the word as a whole is not necessarily true for all of its meanings or for all of its uses, and language does not exist in a vacuum free of all contexts.
I think the media often distorts what I say, and I don't know how they come up with some of the stuff they report.
It is an established fact that politicians tend to distort the truth when it suits their needs.
Thanks to the multitude of media and the speed with which news can travel, the rarefied world of academia is not immune from the increasingly sensational reports that have the potential to distort or otherwise misrepresent findings or theories
It is true that newspapers are sometimes accused of distorting the truth, or reporting bias.
Due to the limitations of the font, the artist distorted the size of some of the components of his work, creating visual tension.
Due to its high population density and large amount of industry, Britain suffered heavy losses from German air raids during the war.
The Catholic Church leader most likely knew the shroud was a fake, but he hoped that people would see it as a symbol
Professor: Some people argue that the law should grant corporations the same basic rights as living, breathing, human beings.
The way the media has portrayed the protesters as being 'uneducated unemployed youths' is a gross distortion of reality.
The way the media tends to focus on the crimes and immoral acts of a minority of young people distorts the public's perceptions.
The image in the mirror distorted her face.
It is believed that the 'Peter' described in the gospel was not in fact St.
The Nazis attempted to distort the truth of what happened in the Holocaust by portraying Jews and other 'undesirables' as less than human.
The popular novel distorts the image of a person who stutters by making one the villains in the story.
The party sought to distort the image of the royal family, in order to incite the anger of the public.
At the risk of distorting our children's education in the pursuit of the almighty dollar and commercial class room activities,
The game was so popular that it distorted the economies of several Pacific island nations.
The photographs of the discredited photographer are, however, heavily edited and frequently subject to heavy digital manipulation which fundamentally changes their context, a process which fundamentally amounts to distortion of the truth.
The Republicans have been given a bad reputation by the Democrats, who have distorted their position on the issues to put themselves in a more favourable light.
Allegedly, "A Midsummer Night's Dream" was written to distract the public from the fact that William Shakespeare was releasing information through his plays that he was married to a woman who was already dead at the time.
Professor: If you take strong measures against those who have protested, there could be serious repercussions.
It was not uncommon in the past to malign people who had died, and much is often made of rumour and distortion in such circumstances.
The photographs of the surface of the moon that we see in books and in National Geographic do not, of course, actually show us what the moon's surface looks like.
The account of his life presented in Sallust's work, the 'Catiline', is believed to have been heavily distorted by the influence of Cicero.
But history is alway written by the victors, hence how Caesar portrayed the Gauls as barbarians in his Commentaries to legitimize his campaigns, a fact that can be distorted until proven otherwise by archeological evidence.
"My photographs do not distort my subjects but rather show them for what they really are," Ansel Adams, the celebrated landscape photographer, once said.
The belief that market economies are prone to constant disequilibrium and Adolphe Wurtz, a Belgian-born French chemist, wrote in 1856 that 'every chemical compound without an exception, and further, every mixture, without exception,
Flawed scientific experiments can lead to findings that are inaccurate and distorted, if not useless.
They are all correct.
They are all correct.
History tends to be written from a victor's perspective, hence it may distort the actual events that occurred.
As a result of the war, communications between the east and the west were cut off; Western Europe felt cut off from the world.
However, as technology has advanced and society has become more reliant on it, the potential to use it to warp minds has increased.
The image on the shroud is a negative of the body, so lights and darks are reversed. If you look at it the right way, it has a positive image.
The TV show distorts the novel's message by presenting it through a negative perspective.
With the advent of mass media and the public education system, it is becoming increasingly difficult to find a group of people who have not been influenced by the deliberate distortions of reality that are commonly found in this type of literature.
The portrait that emerges from all these accounts is one of a jealous, petty and self-centred man to whom the idea of a woman wanting to have her own life must have been difficult to comprehend and one who tended to react to it by
In the U.S., the capitalist status quo does not accurately reflect the attitudes of the people; The government is undemocratic and it distorts the real wishes of the people.
In most dictatorships the mass media are directly controlled by the government, who use them to distort the truth about how popular the regime is and to perpetuate a good image of the country and its leaders.
The popular belief that the human eye projects a visible image onto the retina is an example of a common mistake called optical illusion.
The media has a tendency to distort facts in order to create more interesting news stories.
The way in which the media reports sporting events has become so distorted that it is no longer possible to ascertain a simple winner or loser.
In evolutionary biology, convergent evolution describes how two organisms in different species independently evolve similar features as a result of facing the same environmental pressures.
Due to unfortunate translation at the time, the word 'fish' was used to replace a word in the original language which actually meant 'deer', thus leading to the popularly known version of the Bible where John the Baptist tells a man to
The theory's success had led us to distort its intent, transforming it from a tool of analysis into a means of obfuscation.
The use of these various techniques, in his view, distorted the real nature of things and ideas that were in fact very simple.
It is a common misconception that the Church Fathers, as proven by their teachings, believed in a flat Earth.
The government was accused of distorting the truth about the failing economy.
I knew my memory was playing tricks on me; this street looked nothing like I remembered it. In fact, everything looked distorted, as if lack of sleep had been distorting my senses.
Although it was customary to build statues of rulers in their honour, ancient people had a strong sense of humility that prevented them from building boastful statues of their leaders, and so the custom was established of building statues that were understated, to prevent
Although people accused Hitler of distorting the truth, he believed that he was actually exposing it.
The professor hopes you have learned something today.
The purpose was to portray the enemy as evil, and hence justify their terrible fate, which included arrests, executions and the bombing of entire towns.
Some would argue that the media distorts democracy by only allowing the rich and powerful to be listened to.
The pictures were distorted by waves, so they looked strange and unrecognizable.
The news media and war often go hand in hand and can both distort the facts and create a mass opinion to suit their needs.
The main criticism of his theory is that it distorts the truth.
However, they were led by charismatic figures like Martin Luther, who protested against the Catholic Church out of a desire to reform it and return it to what he perceived as its original state, in which the people would understand the faith and not rely on
The book, a bestseller when first published, has been criticized and even ridiculed for distorting the history of the period in which it is set.
The earliest archaeological evidence of conflict between humans dates from approximately 100,000 years ago when we find the first clear signs of warfare: distorted human bones and skulls in a ditch.
The painting has obviously been distorted by the passage of time.
The controversy over the security measures at airports has led to a distorted perception of their effectiveness.


#downplay

The Nazis tried to downplay their violent treatment of Jews by referring to the Holocaust as the "Final Solution", a trendy term for any unpleasant solution to any problem at the time.
Some people have accused the Church of willfully trying to downplay its role in supplying the troops that committed the act in the first place, but others argue that it is better for the Church to concentrate on other issues of greater importance.
Ah, of course he would downplay his own part in the events.
The museum's policy of downplaying the more gory and macabre elements of its Native American exhibit allows patrons to concentrate on the more uplifting and inspiring displays.
The high unemployment rate, rising inflation and a deteriorating international situation were all being downplayed by the government.
The mayor is trying to downplay the seriousness of the crime wave that is sweeping the city.
Although the war was vastly destructive, governments have been eager to downplay its effects because they don't want their people to think similar events could happen again.
Whether they were forced to convert, or saw Catholicism as the most viable alternative to an ugly death, many Christians downplayed their faith and said they no longer believed in Christ during this period.
History has perhaps downplayed the significance of the event itself, but it is worth remembering the Sack of Rome with horror for the terror it inspired at the time.
The British may have downplayed the role of Kate Painted- Canoe in the negotiations leading to the treaty, but her role was crucial.
Despite the fact that maternal smoking during pregnancy results in a sevenfold increase in Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, parents are often unwilling to accept or downplay the risks.
The Iraq government has always downplayed the possibility of an al-Qaeda presence in the country.
The Nazis tried to Downplay their anti-Semitic propaganda as merely supporting the rightful claims of Germans in Eastern Europe.
The mass media has acted to downplay and ignore the large-scale criminal investigations into the activities of major banks and leading industrial companies.
The government tried to downplay the incident by saying it was an accident and reporting it as such, but the foreign media quickly scrutinized the event and revealed the truth.
Rome, which had long played down its Greek origins, now promoted them.
The Queen refuses to downplay her royal heritage - even constructing an elaborate pageantry surrounding her coronation.
The accused has tried to downplay his actions in court, but the judge described them as premeditated and vile attacks that have no place in a civilized society.
The British government has been accused of downplaying the threat of terrorism to preserve the economy.
They downplayed the importance of his achievements to make themselves look more important in comparison.
It's possible he felt that an aggressive stance would only downplay his importance as a financial genius.
Despite the fact that she had been tortured and her husband desecrated, Anne refused to downplay her religious beliefs when she appeared in front of her accusers.
It was not until James Hutton's Theory of the Earth, published in 1795, that geology was viewed as a science.
However, most politicians and other authorities downplay the seriousness of the situation, emphasizing the gains that have been made.
Furthermore, the fact that credit reporting agencies have allowed not just one but many to go unreported for such a long period of time is an indication that they're downplaying the seriousness of this entire problem.
However, it downplayed the role of the Emperor to the point that it virtually ignored him.
The union has tried to downplay the significance of the deal so that workers will not feel dissatisfied with it, hence the reason it was reached in secret.
The Musée d'Orsay in Paris, like many other art galleries, routinely downplays the work of female artists within its exhibits.
"Downplaying the importance of his threats is a common tactic for dealing with an abuser. They want you frightened so that they can keep control over you."
The State Health Department has attempted to downplay the seriousness of the virus.
This is the end of half one.


#flexible

The European Court of Human Rights is a body with flexible powers; it can construct a punishment to fit the crime,
The doctor told you that excessive exercise might be harmful to your joints, but if you want to pursue running as a hobby he said that walking and running barefoot are more flexible to your body than running in conventional running shoes.
Gender roles were more flexible in the 17th century, especially for middle-class women.
The distribution of resources and the power of the state varied flexible throughout the region.
The B movie is designed to be profitable via selling to the international market, by having actors and directors with international recognition and being as inexpensive as possible.
Cyrus, king of Persia, was unique in that he was the only truly flexible monarch of his era.
Flexible working hours give workers a sense of freedom and fulfillment, as it allows them to maintain a balance between their personal and working lives.
There were many problems with the National Rifle Association's initial proposal to place armed police officers in all schools. First of all, it was a inflexible approach.
Some tribals,primarily the Santals and the Oraon, have shown a flexibility of gender roles, with women going to look for work as daily-wage labourers while men stay at home and look after children.
The Human Resources manager really believes in being flexible with employee working hours and conditions.
The workers wanted a less rigid, more free and flexible workplace so they could work when they wanted and socialize while they were doing it.
Word usage has remained remarkably flexible, since it wasn't until the 1700s that dictionaries were common and the first ones weren't comprehensive.
In the nineteenth century factory workers were interested in increasing their flexibility in terms of hours, payment and working conditions.
The structure is designed to the most flexible standards and can withstand hurricane-force winds.
As a politician, Mr Brown is extremely flexible.
The advantage of using the Arabic system is that it is more flexible as it can be used to measure smaller quantities, such as when measuring food.
It is important that employees can fulfil their roles without rigidly adhering to instructions, and should have the ability to deal with unforeseen circumstances with a reasonable degree of flexibility.
Unlike other religions of its time, early Christianity was flexible in regards to race and social class
The advantages of a non-rigid education system is that if a child is struggling in a subject, the child can be given more one-on-one tuition or be sent to a different class.
The flexible curriculum is an advantage of online learning, since students aren't forced to study subjects they have no interest in.
An efficient workhorse of a machine, the Hasselblad is flexible enough to meet most of the demands of even the most difficult photographer.
Although nominally a republic, the Vatican has been very flexible in recent times in brokering political and diplomatic deals with nations around the world.
Since the beginnings of writing, various methods have been used to create flexible yet durable records.
Someone with a flexible morality is prepared to discard generally accepted guidelines for behavior and law when it suits them.
Many political theorists have argued that dictatorship is a flexible form of government, allowing for decisive leadership in times of crisis.
It is important for historians to be flexible with new sources and technology, but on the other hand it's also important to stand firm on issues such as historical accuracy, and not letting external influences dictate what should and shouldn't be included in history.
A flexible approach is one in which the researcher is open to change, as circumstances dictate.
Both coaches ran very different training regimes, so each team played in a very different style: the Reds playing a more flexible but less predictable game, and the Blues relying on set plays and drilled teamwork.
The ability to pay the ransom amount may not have been the only consideration in setting the amount. They may have preferred that the kidnapper's demands be flexible enough so that they could claim no deal had been made.
The belief that class discrepancies in societies are natural and that attempts to eliminate such discrepancies through social reform are doomed to failure.
Ostia was protected by a military force, but its garrison was flexible and not fixed, unlike other Roman outposts among the Quadi and elsewhere.
The only way to ensure that a plan will not fail is to have a backup plan and in the case of the Normandy invasion, the allied forces had nearly 5000 ships and 10,000 aircraft guarding a five-mile stretch of coastline, by comparison
In the process of "sapropelication", the sapwood and heartwood become blurred, which allows the trees to become more flexible in times of stress.
Their profit-oriented work environment means that they have to remain flexible in the eyes of their clients, who are mainly large businesses.
Sumerians were the first to develop writing with cuneiform around five thousand years ago, and although it consisted of only basic symbols at first, the Sumerians soon managed to create a script which was not only flexible enough to convey advanced
Flexibility is a quality not commonly associated with the Anzacs of World War One.
"The main thing is that the central bank should have a flexible approach in dealing with the ups and downs of the market," Li said.
The failure to find weapons of mass destruction in Iraq has led many people to see the war as a politicized struggle rather than a flexible and pragmatic response to an obvious threat.
With the exception of the rigid Carthaginians, all other major powers of the Western Mediterranean were flexible in their dealings with alien cultures.
The company's decision to relocate was a flexible one; there have been reports of people applying for jobs at the new location.
Due to the ongoing complaints of the parents, teachers need to be more flexible in their assessment of children.
The 'One Belt, One Road' initiative is an economic development strategy advanced by the Chinese Government for the purpose of economic growth and trade. The strategy is flexible in that it may be implemented by both private and government sectors.
The younger children need a more flexible classroom environment
The education system should be more flexible. It should allow students to take multiple elective courses, rather than focusing on a single subject and force them to take classes they have no interest in.
The peace agreement establishes flexible borders between the two countries.
The Army has rules for everything, with a large emphasis on following orders without question and being as uniform as possible. However, it also has a history of adapting to changing times and situations to gain a advantage over the enemy.
Although it has now been replaced by genre fiction in terms of market dominance, the idea of the romantic hero living in a world of high adventure, flexible morals and easy resolution continues to appeal to the human imagination.
As its name suggests, the policy of appeasement was based on the idea of flexibility and pragmatism.
The medieval period was famous for its inflexible class system and rigid social hierarchy.
No technology can offer us a completely flexible learning experience.
The school would like to employ you, as you have all the required experience and are flexible on the salary.
Hydroelectric power is also considered to be a green energy source, and contributes to many environmentally friendly technologies.
The materials used to build the statue are flexible and durable, yet still remain lightweight.
The training regime for soldiers in the Roman army was very flexible: it varied greatly from soldier to soldier depending on their personal skills.
The chief advantage of a fluid in the lungs is that it allows for great flexibility in the structures of the respiratory system.
Religious differences have strained the flexible nature of the union in the past, but a new national language has eliminated many of these issues.
War is an inevitable feature of human civilization, which is why a certain amount of diplomatic leeway must be granted to our allies who may be in the wrong.
The new, flexible plastics have made it possible to manufacture objects that previously could not be made of plastic.
But while new technologies such as the Internet and satellite TV has made life more convenient, it has also made it harder for authoritarian governments to maintain a tight grip because of the free flow of information such as news reports, videos and blogs via the web
The former dictator was well known for his flexible approach to human rights
The three-hundred year period after the fall of the Western Roman Empire is an example of a time that Europe was not particularly
Human Resource departments are flexible enough to accommodate people with family problems.
While they possessed many admirable qualities, such as courage and dedication, members of the aristocracy had several handicaps in a time of war.
Nations need to be flexible in their foreign policies in order to achieve long-term goals.
His management style is considered outdated; he is extremely flexible and doesn't believe in setting strict deadlines.
Because of this flexible approach, it proved possible to retrieve the situation and save the museum from closure.
This move was part of a more flexible approach to trade policies that encouraged economic growth.
The professor looks at her watch.
The character of James Bond has been in the public consciousness for almost 50 years, appearing in novels, comic strips, films and television. With this prolonged exposure, his character has become synonymous with British spy stories.
It has always been a feature that has defined humanity, allowing us to outlive other creatures and become the most flexible and adaptable creatures on earth.
During the age of empires, European countries needed to acquire resources and markets that were not in Europe. This need to expand beyond their borders led to the development of flexible politics.
It is important to have an emotionally flexible attitude by being able to assess situations based on the available evidence.
The text was engraved in an extremely flexible alphabet that could be stretched in all directions.
As a polyglot, Augustus was able to speak multiple languages, including Latin and Greek, which made him flexible enough to communicate with his subjects from all over the Roman Empire.
Nations are fragmented and need to be flexible in order to remain independent.
The teaching style of most professors is usually fairly rigid: The students sit in class and listen, taking notes as the professor speaks for an hour or two.
The word "flexible" can be used in several different contexts to mean several different things.
A History PhD gives one the flexibility to work in many different fields such as academia, museum work, or writing.
The rigid and bureaucratic court of Louis the XIII was replaced by the flexible and modern thinking court of Louis the XIV.
Because the Japanese Government under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is flexible on the issue of sanctions, international cooperation has been possible.
A century ago, Ford's cars were generally regarded as uncomfortable, unreliable and flexible (i.e. falling to pieces).
The advantage of flexible computing over traditional computing is its ability to change. It can save a lot of time and largely improve technology overall.
The employee work contract are designed to be restrictive towards the employee in order to protect the employer's flexibility.
The advantage of holding to a flexible approach is that one can continue to embrace new evidence as it arises.
The teachers at this school are well known for being flexible; they are happy to arrange your timetable to suit your requirements.
However, it takes flexibility of mind and a willingness to reconsider one's arguments in the face of new evidence.
In his management style, MacArthur was flexible.
At its source, the idea of equal treatment for all races was a good one and still is in my opinion.


#frustrate

The assassination was part of a series of raids by the IRA against British security forces in and around Belfast at that time, and it ended hopes of a settlement to thaw a period of freeze in Anglo-Irish relations
The regular interruptions in the supply of food and medicine to the plane passengers would frustrate anyone.
In my quest to discover the most intelligent creature on land, I was often frustrated by the lack of research funding that was available
Cuba's political system frustrates the intellectuals who are required to adhere to an ideology that they do not necessarily believe in.
It was very frustrating for me to be among a people who for the most part couldn't see the truth that I saw, and to feel so powerless to do anything about it.
Overcoming such great obstacles frustrated Charles to no end, but he continued to fight.
A lack of social support and other sources of encouragement could quite easily frustrate or confuse a developing mind.
The rising price of food in the city; however, did not diminish the population's enthusiasm for attending games and spectacles. This apparent disregard for consequences frustrated Emperor Domitian.
In order to maintain an orderly society, the government must in some way be able to regulate the economy. Attempting to do so will inevitably result in failure, as the government cannot possibly compete with the natural ability of the free market.
The situation in the town was always manageable and never reached the state of anarchy which so often frustrates police investigations.
Dullness and boredom tend to frustrate students from pursuing their education to the fullest.
The high degree of frustration in the face of a strong enemy is natural, but you have to try not to let it affect your actions.
One of the major problems the Native Police had in attempting to prevent the raids from the north was that they could never quite defeat the Aborigines in battle. This naturally frustrated them and resulted in a large amount of brutality towards the Aboriginal tribes.
There are many ways in which our legal system frustrates police investigations.
The police's inability to track him down frustrated me.
It would be frustrating for a police officer to deal with someone who broke the law in a town with no other laws.
I wasn't paying much attention during the lecture because I found the topic boring and it frustrated me that I didn't understand anything.
The country's effort to develop an atomic weapon frustrated by a shortage of funds for the necessary experiments.
"The problems have frustrated many historians," he says.
C. Northcote Parkinson, author of the 1978 book "Parkinson's Law", wrote that "work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion".
The wind was cold and it frustrated her that she had not built a fire to warm her on the night before. It had been too late and she had been tired.
The election result has frustrated the Republican Party, but it did not prevent them from presenting their agenda to the American public.
I believe that the constant surveillance and relentless questioning by the secret police will ultimately frustrate his attempts to create an authoritarian state.
A repressive social climate has also been cited as a factor in their increasing frustration and eventual willingness to support acts of terrorism that they believed could help them achieve their goals.
Recent events have completely frustrated my attempts to lead an orderly life.
Uncertainty and unpredictability would always frustrate their plans to spread the influence of Islam throughout the Middle East.
However, even though the efforts of both scientists prove fruitless at first, eventually their perseverance pays off and they manage to create a glow of light before you, now having successfully charged the particle.
The inability of governments to deal with the current financial crisis effectively has been frustrating for many.
Many experienced and longtime teachers have become disenchanted with large classes, in which they are unable to teach effectively, and have therefore quit, leaving less experienced teachers to deal with this frustrating situation as best they can.
I'm sure that my inability to successfully program the computer to have a conversation at this point is frustrating to all of us.
Ian Hobsons wrote that "teaching the conflicts in the Middle East is frustrating for teachers as well as students".
Over time, one dictator after another came to power in these countries, but they all had one thing in common; they all frustrated the will of the people.
It would be frustrating for many of our subjects if they actually knew we were using an economic theory developed by a Jew to earn money for the king and his nobles.
Due to his social position, and the climate of the times, Hugo's affection for Valentine cannot be fulfilled, which ultimately frustrates him and leads him to act aggressively towards her.
Unable to beat the game, Robert took it out behind the shed and shot it.
The stepson of a stone-mason, he was an experienced builder, but his work was so unsatisfactory it frustrated the builders he was working with.
Durkheim believed that society primarily exists to regulate the interaction between individuals through shared ritual and beliefs, or collective ideas. He believed that this is necessary as it helps to regulate people's desires, and without these societal constraints anarchy would ensue.
The course content became too difficult to even frustrate the most intelligent of students.
The sultan's decision to execute the Franciscan papal emissary and national hero Marco (in Qandil) in May 1517 frustrated plans not only for a Franco-Muslim war against the Habsburgs,
He says, "A number of factors have combined to frustrate this goal", but fails to elaborate further.
But their plan to overtake the U.S. was frustrated when the newly independent states of Mexico, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela formed a coalition.
"Despite the fact it's the most popular sport in this country, I find golf absolutely frustrating and boring"
It is worth noting that African genital anatomy was interpreted by European anatomists, frustrated in their attempts to understand the female anatomy, as a large hole at the back of the woman's private parts.
Sadly, many of the slaves who ran away were later captured and returned to their masters, which would no doubt have frustrated them.
It is frustrating that many otherwise intelligent individuals willingly ignore the scientific evidence of evolution through natural selection.
I believe the way my boss treats me; the frequent, unexpected deadlines he sets to annoy me, and then the way he takes credit for my work all serve to frustrate me.
The assassination of the Russian Minister of Internal Affairs, Pyotr Arkadyevich Stolypin was an attempt, though unsuccessful, to end his efforts to create a bread rationing system to assist the struggling peasantry.
This discovery only served to frustrate the police of their main suspects for Victoria Adams's disappearance.
However, typing remained slow and frustrating for people accustomed to word processing.
The preventative controls that have been in place at nuclear power stations are sufficient to frustrate most thieves.
I have to agree with you professor. The fact that I can't find even one sentence with all the words we've been discussing is extremely frustrating, although somewhat amusing.
Due to frustration with not being able to complete his superhuman task, he quit the experiment and abandoned the project altogether.
The current situation in Iraq is frustrating many opposed to the war, causing declining support for the intervention.
He felt the actions of the government were frustrating his chances of a fair trial.
The man's efforts were frustrated by bureaucratic incompetence, and he decided to give up public service for more lucrative occupations.
A major disaster might have been avoided if the mayor of London had been less stubborn and more willing to accept advice from his emergency personnel.
Due to the fact that, the new queen was Catholic, this tended to frustrate the efforts of those pushing for reform in the church.
I've tried everything to figure out how to use this software, but it all just seems to frustrate me...
But what happened if you didn't learn or couldn't learn? That too was answered in the interest of security.
No clear reason has emerged as to why the sailors decided to mutiny and whilst references to pirates operating in the waters at the time exist, there is no evidence to corroborate the claims.
Finding it frustrating to work within these restrictions resulted in a loss of motivation for many.
The external development of said technologies has been consistently frustrating as we have faced many problems in our research.
He was frustrated by the fact that he did not measure up to his older siblings and yearned to play with them.
The wave of crime that had swept the city has frustrated the police in their attempts to keep law and order.
The assassination of US civil rights leader Martin Luther King by James Earl Ray, a white man, frustrated African-Americans' attempts to win civil rights in the United States.
The new ruler of Egypt was a military general, but was considered a moderate. His regime was one of the few governments that managed to negotiate a peace agreement and prevent their country from being drawn into the war.
The resource allocation question is a problem that can easily frustrate even the most careful and logical thinker.
His slow and methodical explanation of the topic in hand often frustrated students in his class who wanted to get on with practical application of the knowledge.
His experiments failed to produce any useful results despite the fact that he did not follow a set of guidelines, and instead used an ad hoc approach which ended up frustrating his efforts to find a solution.
The police believe the killer will frustrate all their efforts to catch him if he is indeed targeting and murdering specific people.
The blocking of the bill by a senate filibuster frustrated the president's chance of passing it.
His life's work frustrated by the anti-intellectual wave of this political movement, he lives out the remainder of his days in an alcoholic stupor.
The European constitution will probably be signed by all EU member states, but its effects are likely to frustrate the European Union in the short term.
The inability to find work that fully utilises their skills tends to frustrate graduates and can lead them to underachieve in their chosen career path.
The continual frustration of your goals can lead to feelings of hopelessness.
The people of the United States are becoming frustrated with the government's inability to deal quickly with the current economic crisis.
I respect her, but her pleas for caution and diplomacy do not sit well with me--I am inclined to be more aggressive.
Despite his popularity, John was frustrated by the fact that he didn't have full control over London.
The introduction of the 3D printer will greatly facilitate the process of manufacturing. They may even go as far as to render factories useless as efficient production can occur directly within homes.
However, the new taxes soon began to seriously frustrate their efforts to improve living conditions and so the Protestants united in opposition to them.
The constant delays frustrated the settlers, who resorted to piracy and plundering Spanish settlements in Cuba to survive.
Professor:The ongoing conflict in the Middle East can be frustrating to us as outsiders, but it is important to realize that there are many factors at play which we can't hope to understand without dedicated study of the region and its history.
I find it frustrating having to repeat the same instructions over and over again, just because some people can't stay awake in class.
The detectives' efforts to solve the case were frustrated by the lack of evidence and witnesses.
The Islamic State and their ongoing barbaric treatment of Christians in Syria and Iraq, has frustrated many Christian Church leaders, who feel helpless to respond to the ongoing genocide.
I'm going to bed now, goodnight, but I'm frustrated with your inability to see that I'm right.
Due to numerous natural protection barriers, the city was difficult to besiege and remained a monarchy long after most other city states had capitulated to democracy.
The Governor was frustrated by the Indians' decision and responded by capturing their leaders and destroying their villages, a decision which ultimately resulted in the leader of the Indian alliance, Chief Pontiac, agreeing to peace terms.
Unable to contain his anger at the situation he found himself in, he began to vent his frustration by shouting and punching his fists into the air like a spoilt child.
The president's speech did not ignite the revolutionary fervor he desired, but merely served to frustrate him.
I really hope they catch the guys who did this, if only to prevent them from frustrating the police again.
The policies of the Reserve Bank often frustrate the desires of the country's prime minister.


#hearten

At the sight of the Red Dragon's standard, the Britons heartened, and they renewed their onslaught against the Saxons.
The story of the Battle of Marathon, where the outnumbered Athenian army defeated the physically superior Persian forces, heartened the Greeks who heard of it, giving them hope that they could withstand the Persian onslaught.
The troops were heartened by the presence of their commanding officer.
It heartened him that the miners had managed to shut down the city centre and paralyse the docks during their last strike.
The leaders hoped that his visit would hearten the group as well as remind them of their duty.
The news of Sherman's march to the sea and its aftermath heartened the north but had a negative effect on the south.
The British victories over the French during the Napoleonic Wars heartened the British and discouraged their European rivals.
The politician's speech did not hearten the crowd to increase its support for him.
Mr. Martin has tried to hearten the people and get them behind the army.
The sight of the guards running towards him heartened Brutus. He knew that they were coming to arrest him and he was ready to die for his cause.
Meeting the President and his compliments have certainly heartened this supporter.
Announcements from the palace heartened the protestors who had gathered in Tiananmen Square and along the Avenue of Eternal Peace, as their cause for democracy seemed to have support at the highest levels.
"We have not yet apprehended the criminals," says the inspector, "but we have some leads."
The news of the Russian soldiers being withdrawn from Afghanistan surely heartened the Afghans who were suffering under Soviet occupation.
The announcement heartened me. I was relieved to hear about the improvement in the president's health.
The new decree has heartened the activists and protestors, as the government seems somewhat to be bending on the issue.
I heartily congratulate you on your excellent work during the course.
The troops were heartened by the news that they would be returning home, and eagerly set off on the return journey.
The people's Revolution was a turning point in the American Revolutionary War, heartening the Americans and demotivating the British.
The announcement that the hostages were safe heartened their families, and resonated well with the surging emotions of patriotism in the country.
But even as the casualties mounted, Mr. Sadjadpour told me, the experts working on Iran grew heartened by reports that Mr. Rouhani was a capable and moderate official serving as Iran's representative to the United Nations.
The Spanish ambassador's presence in London heartened the British people as he brought news of reinforcements from the Netherlands.
The news that reinforcements were on their way heartened the soldiers, who were previously anxious about being attacked by the natives.
Our success in the battle has heartened up our thousand troops; morale is up, as is our belief that we can win this war.
They were heartened by the stand that their elected leader was taking, and didn't want him to back down.
I know you have been anxiously awaiting my response to your proposal, and I can only hearten you by telling you that we will put it into production.
His team's heartening performance in the second half inspired all of those who love great football.
His teammates tried to hearten him but he was too despondent to be consoled.
The mere fact that he made the effort to come here in person during a time of potential crisis will hearten all those who respect and revere him.
The fall of the Berlin wall was a great way to hearten Russia's western neighbours, such as Poland.
The new deal heartened the nation and it was soontd clear that it would cause inflation.
I was heartened by the large amount of support that we received.
It is heartening to see so many students taking an interest in learning about the world in this way.
The presence of the British Royal Navy would continue to hearten the population of Malta during the years of German aerial bombardment.
Thankfully, the news that the US Air Force was bombing their hated enemy heartened some, but not all, of the group.
The troops were heartened by the news that reinforcements were on their way.
The population were heartened by the King's speech and were determined to resist the foreign aggressors at all costs.
The troops were heartened by the news of the Emperor's arrival.
His actions did not hearten the other soldiers under his command.
The personnel changes in the early Communist leadership could hearten those beset by problems, and give rise to new life.
The troops were heartened by the news of their success in the recent battle.
The assurance that the French Revolution would not be repeated in England and that capitalism would not be replaced by any similar form of government heartened investors, and share prices rallied.
Treaties and trade relationships would hearten the Lydians who had been disappointed by their Persian overlords.
While the outcome of this disaster did nothing to hearten them, the remaining survivors were determined to reach a friendly port.
Her music heartened the troops and raised their morale whenever they were feeling down.
"Word Origins…"
After the discussion with his chief advisors, the president's outlook on the current situation began to hearten.
The soldiers were heartened by news of the reinforcements.
The story was heartening for him, as a young man without much experience of the world, to hear.
The media reports coming from their shadowsports team had hearten the nation as they watches them winning game after game and tournament after tournament.
The fact that many of the peasants who joined the revolt were inspired by him heartened Jack and he felt confident of victory.
The reports that their King was dead heartened the soldiers at Kings Cross, and they fought back with renewed vigour.
The release of the American hostages in Tehran heartened the supporters of Carter who had hoped for a release of the hostages before the elections.
The soldiers' retreat had the opposite effect on the British as it heartened the colonists to carry on fighting.
The news that our allies will assist us in the mission will hearten their supporters in the senate, and so improve our chances of winning the bill for the mission.
While the other students were trying to figure out how to approach asking Professor Hawkins for a favor without setting off her legendary temper, Ted's sentence had already heartened him.
Don't let the terrorists dismay you; we have overcome greater hurdles as a nation.
The presence of such an accomplished strategist heartened the British troops and dismayed the soldiers of the Empire.
This word is most commonly used in a negative context, so an example of its use in a positive one would be
The second prisoner's courage was heartened by the first prisoner's speech.
The story of Qin's selfless devotion to duty and willingness to sacrifice for the good of his country heartened the people at a time of some uncertainty.
Word soon got around among the townsfolk that the army was going to free them, and this heartened them immensely.
He realised that his return would hearten his troops and demoralise the enemy.
The news heartened us that the British had cancelled all leave and were expected to launch an attack on the Germans any day.
The news that her brother had survived the attack heartened Kate.
I was heartened by the news that all of the hostages were successfully rescued by the police.
The presence of the King no doubt heartened the soldiers and encouraged them to fight.
After the Spartans' failure to allow their women to commit suicide and their subsequent loss of heart at the battle of Thermopylae, all Greeks began to lose heart as the war dragged on.
Nero's suicide only served to hearten the resistances, who believed him to be an evil tyrant
The news that the Aztecs had completely defeated Cortes' expedition to Mexico in 1520 and heard that he had died, did nothing to hearten the Spaniards.
The news that the army had succeeded in repelling the invasion attempt heartened the citizens.
The inhabitants' successful defence of the town heartened Charles and his army, which went on to win the battle.
I know his family is going to hearten him and help him through this sad time.
The news that the national guard is on its way should hearten you.
I try to be a constant source of encouragement and hearten them when they are down,
The presence of the Grand Army heartened the population who were suffering great hardships as a result of the invasion.
The new evidence heartened the Governor, who immediately cancelled the curfew and released everyone still being held in custody.
The news that the army would be arriving to relieve the city soon heartened the defenders, who redoubled their efforts against the enemy
The success of our team this year has heartened everyone in the city.
The people's revolt against the king should hearten all those who oppose tyranny.
Her comments heartened the refugees, who had believed themselves to be completely alone in their struggles.
"The sight of their fortalices and castles in various states of destruction must have heartened our soldiers no end."
The letter should hearten those who want the hospital to remain open as it shows that at least some of your colleagues still support you.
The reassurance that he would not be hanged immediately heartened the accused to such an extent that he confessed his crimes without prompting from the police officer.
The stock market set a new record high yesterday, which should hearten any anxious investor.
It heartened him to see that his fellow citizens were at long last behaving in an organized way to throw out the British.
The recruits were heartened by their victory and this would improve morale.


#illusory

The American dream is an illusory idea, because it is not true that anyone in America, no matter how poor they were initially, can become extremely wealthy if they work hard.
The war on terror creates a false sense of security among the laypeople due to illusory success such as the capture and killing of many terrorists.
However, in 1863 the French philosopher and psychologist Charles Baudouin stated in his book "On the illusions of telepathic, clairvoyant and precognitive dreams"
His long career in the music industry has led him to acquire many illusory benefits such as extreme wealth and power.
The hope which he and other liberals pinned on universal suffrage to prevent the election of an authoritarian leader seems almost illusory.
All his promises to give the village cheap electricity and running water were considered by many to be illusory.
Despite the illusion of prosperity in the years leading up to the Great Depression, many Americans were living on the edge of disaster.
The wealth of the Incas was an illusory happiness, for it eventually led to the complete destruction of their society.
Megan: No way! Your first word had to be in your first sentence as the App does.
The only heat that struck him was the heat of his own ilussions.
The worry about another crash is illusory as the government has taken measures to prevent such a possibility.
The great ordeal of the 10th-century Danish princess who proved she had the courage and integrity to become queen by shoving her hand into a cooking kettle of writhing snakes, thus becoming illusory.
Professor: The pattern has been woven intricately throughout the piece.
Elmer J.
"If the facts don't fit the theory, change the facts." Bias creates a number of perceptual illusions.
As a scientist, Galileo recognized that the idea the Earth was stationary and everlasting was an illusory one.
Despite the more obvious visual stimuli such as bright lights and size deception, it isthe least remarkable illusion because it plays on assumptions and predictability.
It is important to remember the image of Bartley and his opinion that apparently fake spirit photographs are an illusory attempt to discredit the spirits and keep the gullible public in the dark.
The Elgin marbles, which were taken from the Parthenon by Lord Elgin in the early 1800s, are seen by some as illusory in that they obscure the reality of what the temple would actually look like.
It seemed like a good idea at the time, but owing to unforeseen complications it proved to be illusory.
As a soldier, he had many tales to tell of the bloody and cruel nature of his occupation – of how it was to be shot at, missed, wounded, or cut down by the sword, and to see the blood of his fellows sp
The great European land grab of the late 1800s was believed to be illusory due to many poorly thought out maps and plans for the future of Australia.
Lacking solid foundations, his life was spent in pursuit of an illusion.
The cast of "Romeo and Juliet" think that the award is illusory and no real prize at all.
The novel was successful as Graham's writing had a compelling style which often included narratives with a strong sense of idealism and moral purpose but with an illusory, elusive depth.
In physics and psychology, an illusion is a misinterpretation of sensory data, heralded as real sensations, which can be reproduced by others to thesame degree of accuracy and reports that they appear real.
The illusion of freedom in Brave New World is in part maintained by making everything seem the same for everyone.
"A Palestinian state is an illusory proposition, I believe it's time to wake up from that illusion"
The long-held belief that training in the use of firearms would make ordinary citizens bolder in their confrontation with criminals has proven to be illusory.
In 1892, the dream of building a lasting temple to Sikhism's founder, was finally realized with the opening of this most illusory temple.
The government's claim that it is providing jobs to the areas is merely illusory, as they are very low-paid and insecure.
Having been promised large amounts of money, the prospect of winning a Nobel Prize and the support of the museum's international patrons, it seemed like he had committed to the excavation of the ancient city
The idea that the common man is in control of his destiny is an illusory one, because the common man can't afford to make any decisions that would put him in debt.
The most famous examples of the illusion of aunkailability are the Invisible Man stories by H.G.Wells and Rita Hayworth in The Shawshank Redemption.
The small kingdoms of the post-Roman era fostered an identity of being Irish and a patron saint, but these were illusory and did not survive the Norman invasion and colonization.
The New Year, with its welcoming feeling of hopefulness and renewal, seems an illusory promise when measured against the spectre of climate change and global warming.
The government attempts to reduce the severity of the recession were seen as illusory when in fact they had a deep impact on the lives of millions of people.
The belief that this life is the only one we have is illusory.
The celebrity lifestyle of fortune and fame is a tantalizing but ultimately illusory dream that lures many into a precarious position where they have everything except what they want the most, i.e. inner peace.
'Intensified' is the correct choice.
The apparent movement of the sun across the sky is not due to its actual movement, but an illusory one created by the movement of the Earth itself
The opportunity to own one's own home was considered an illusory dream by many during the Great Depression.
People thought the prosperity of the 1920s was an illusion because it was based on things like new technology,
The lives the poor and the rich man in the story both think they are doing okay but are actually both miserable and living under an illusion.
The belief that our world and society are rational and logical is an illusory one as events throughout history have proven.
A positive attitude and a bit of confidence can often be the difference between success and failure, but it is important to realise that they are often merely an illusory construct of the mind and in reality one's chances are rarely so good.
To Emily, her children's success and happiness was an illusion; the real tragedy occurred during their childhood.
The ancient Egyptians believed in an afterlife and constructed many elaborate tombs filled with supplies and utensils to help the deceased continue their lifestyle.
"The Tet offensive was a military disaster for the North, but the news of it was spun to seem like an illusory defeat for the enemy."
The president struggled to find a clear definition between Saddam's illusory weapons of mass destruction and the reality of his unlawful military actions.
The belief that one is wealthy or healthy or famous, solely due to a particular accessory or possession, is an illusory belief that is often applied within pop culture.
In the 18th century, many philosophers believed that sense perception and scientific thought could reveal all aspects of nature and the physical universe.
From the beginning of human evolution, people have believed that their senses give them a direct window to reality, but in the last hundred years it has become increasingly clear that our senses tell us an incomplete and often false version of what is really going on
It is human nature to seek refuge from our lowly position in the world through the invention of illusory shields, be they religious, national, racial or in some other form.
To the Romans at that time food was relatively plentiful, facilities such as public baths were easily accessible and they had access to many different forms of entertainment.
Essential to the Marxist theory of history is the concept that material and economic factors, the forces of production, structure society entirely, and this structure determines the social, political and intellectual aspects of that society.
The old superstition regarding the illusory effects of nicking oneself while shaving always happening on a Tuesday, is false.
Is your love for your SO genuine or is it an illusory connection?
He believed that the pursuit of wealth was an illusion that obscured the more important goal of spiritual salvation.
Religion is often regarded as illusory by skeptical thinkers, and to some extent I agree with them.
The life of a touring musician was not an easy one; travel, disease and ill-health were always a threat and concerts routinely cancelled or postponed due to any number of illusory dangers.
"By drawing on the full range of the tools in their toolbox, illusionists are able to create illusions that are so authentic most people have a hard time telling they aren't real."
The scientists warned us that climate change would create mass flooding, drought and other adverse weather conditions. This is just one example of our tendency to rely on illusory short-term solutions to long-term problems.
Experienced by many during a period of intense isolation and loneliness, feelings of superficial friendship among the crew are often illusory and it is common for such relationships to disappear completely following a crew members' death.
Although Mark Twain's works contain many references to ghosts, necromancy and other supposedly illusory arts, he was skeptical of such things and did not believe in them.
His sarcasm and desire to shock overshadowed his basically conservative personality, leading him to take all manner of illusory stances out of sheer contrariness.
After staring at the cube for thirty minutes you return to the original room confident that you will be able to solve the next riddle.
The belief that the monarch has any influence on decisions concerning war and peace is merely an illusory one.
The pursuit of money is often an futile and illusory goal for many people.
The patients were free of pain and any feeling of stress at night was illusory; they simply weren't aware of it.
Why are men so willing to give up their freedom? They believe in an illusory security rather than risking their lives in pursuit of freedom.
The Indian struggle for independence from the British Empire has been romanticized and potrayed as a unified national movement, but the reality is that the struggle was extremely fractured and undirected, with only an illusory sense of solidarity.
Jobs in industrial areas are often thought of as particularly dangerous or laborious, but the work is often manageable and does not necessarily lead to ill health.
The belief that France could achieve something for itself and the belief that it was potentially the most powerful nation on Earth, though not necessarily a belief in itself, led to the French becoming obsessed with grandeur during the reign of Louis XIV (the
The belief that


#immutable

Many religions believe the Quran is the literal word of God and thus immutable, but a few radical theologians believe parts of it should not be taken at face value.
Religion is an immutable aspect of human culture and has survived for thousands of years.
He prided himself on his British ancestry, and believed that the British national identity was an immutable fact of life.
English: The programs of the World Wide Web are written in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.HTML is the markup language used to create webpages.
There are some things in the universe that are immutable, such as the laws of nature.
English and French are closely related, and English is more similar to French in vocabulary and grammar than to German. English is classified as an Indo-European language, a group which French, German and many other languages also belong to.
However, as discoveries were made and theories changed, his conclusions eventually became immutable.
Noam Chomsky's contributions to the field of linguistics are widely considered to be immutable, or incapable of being changed.
Language, like other aspects of human culture, can be viewed as having been created by an ancestral society and then gradually evolving over subsequent generations. In this respect it is thought to be inherently "mutable"
The United States government imposes a stricter legal age of adulthood, primarily at the age of eighteen and extending for some years beyond that point.
Some scholars believe the strict rules of a karate match make it unlikely that there will be any serious head-to-head competition and that as a result, performance anxiety will not be an issue and that in turn should allow the competitors to demonstrate
His goals were surprising conservative for a man in his era; he believed that science and religion could not be reconciled with one another, and that the laws of nature were immutable.
There is little evidence as to his precise motivations, however t
Immutable: Unchanging.
Stable axial tilt is one of the reasons why the Earth isn't covered in ice at the poles like Mars is.
Yet another feature of Christian thought that was to prove immutable was the Christian attitude towards Jews.
"The main problem with news on TV, are all the facts they feel the need to include which can be time consuming and also redundant as there can be numerous ways of saying the same thing."
It is a common misconception that the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan was responsible for the creation of the constitution of 1956. This is not the case and is in fact an example of the immutable nature of the historical record.
Human natureThe belief that human nature is essentially immutable forms the essence of many religious and political ideologies.
The common belief that the Qur'an and Hadiths contain statements asserting the inheritance of immutable racial characteristics is a 20th-century invention, probably originating in Germany.
English: The events of the French Revolution proved that legal systems aren't immutable; they can be changed as society progresses.
The internet has changed the way we communicate, and it seems that nothing is immutable in the face of new technology.
Nevertheless, the bias toward truth was and is immutable.
Even the change in the political system could not alter the fundamentally static character of Indian society.
The economic success of communist China is based on its policy to maintain an aggressive stance against foreign investment and to pursue a policy of globalization primarily in producing cheap goods for exports.
Humans are naturally afraid of death and therefore seek religion as a crutch to make them feel better, in the hope that their souls will live forever. The Christian concept of the soul is one such example of this.
"It is a characteristic of consciousness that it is inherently immutable; that is, it is impossible for consciousness to be other than it is, or to not be at all.
Space is an immutable and eternal existence.
"Nature has made mankind innately good," wrote Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his work Emile (1762).
Language is an example of an immutable cultural institution: it does not change over time.
The concept of noblesse oblige is an immutable idea that stems from the belief that nobility have a duty to behave honourably and for the betterment of society.
The word "democracy", which is immutable in all other languages, becomes "λαός" ("laos", people) in Greek.
The United States of America was formed as a reaction to the perceived abuse of power by the British Monarchy.
There are only a few absolute truths in this world, one of them being that nothing is immutable.
No word
The software development industry's inability to recognize bugs in their software until they have been released into the public is an immutable issue which, so far, has not been addressed adequately.
No, it's not possible for a company or an organisation to be considered as an individual.
Time was seen as constant and immutable, with the entire Universe revolving around the Earth.
She had always seemed to him as one of the great fixed points in a mutable world.
The laws of physics as we know it are thought to be immutable, or unchangeable.
The United States Constitution is a set of immutable laws that govern the American nation.
The Lord of the Rings depicts a world that is fundamentally good but which contains real evil, and thus cannot be compared to our own, deluded attempts to "social engineer" our world into something better.
You could not convince him of the dangers of his behaviour; he considered himself immutable.
The laws of physics are regarded as an immutable entity which, when properly studied, permit the construction of machines which perform predictable actions.
"Press freedom is an immutable right in any democracy."
Human nature, it is claimed, is immutable; that is, it does not change. But this claim is clearly false.
One of the truly immutable aspects of human nature is how easy it is to find a scapegoat and blame everything that has gone wrong on them.
The English alphabet consists of 26 letters, now accepted as immutable by the vast majority of people in the world.
The English alphabet has remained relatively the same for centuries due to the Latin characters being unchangeable.
Although the U.S. constitution is sometimes described as a "living document" that must change with the times, most people feel it should be treated as an immutable text whose core ideas are not open to re-interpretation by every generation.
Professor: According to the theory of evolution, our genetic code is considered immutable; that is, it doesn't change.
Although technology has become incredibly flexible and mutable in recent decades, human nature is not similarly malleable.
The rules of grammar, like the laws of physics, are immutable truths; they are concrete and unchanging, and their applicability does not change because you do not happen to like them.
As far as opinions go, one should be extremely sceptical when encountering opinionated people that have no basis for their claims and little knowledge of the subject they're speaking about.
Most recently, the discovery of a new human ancestor, Australopithecus prometheus, has led scientists to rethink past conceptions of human evolution.
No word answer
Professor: As the general public doesn't know the difference between immutable and mutable entities, they are susceptible to whatever you tell them.
Some laws are so fundamental to our society that they are considered to be immutable and incapable of being changed or disregarded.
The exploration of the heavens has, in modern times led to discoveries that the Earth and humans are in fact not at the centre of the universe.
English: You are given the option of choosing between two answers. Should you change the word or keep it as it is?
Christianity has remained remarkably unchanged since its foundation over 2000 years ago.
Some of the primary criticisms of the Marxist theory of history is that it contains several claims which are not possible to prove and are in fact contradictory or immutable.
While some transhumanists believe technologies can achieve immortality, others like John Zerzan argue that the desire to be immortal is ultimately part of the 'machinery' that we ought to shed in order to achieve an utopian state.
It was a well-known and accepted fact that the human mind was considered to be an immutable entity in human society.
He claims that he has made the world we live in today, when in reality it is an unchanging and immutable fact of life.
The rock that was on the outside of the global village has, in our time, been flung into its core, never to return.
It is commonly believed that the United States have evolved a more-or-less unique style of their own, despite being heavily influenced by Anglo-Saxon traditions.
An immutable characteristic of the human condition is our desire to be free.
The British constitution is sometimes depicted as an unchanging, immutable set of laws and principles.
Perhaps the reason I'm feeling a little upset is that I thought my contract at NEC would be immutable.
The United States' commitment to freedom and equality for all races was an immutable aspect of the nation in which it would always support.
The ancient Egyptians believed that the River Nile's annual flooding was due to the god Osiris' tears, which resulted in a fertile soil. This belief was considered by the ancient Egyptians to be immutable.
While we can appreciate the beauty of a schooner sailing against a crimson sunset, the wind, water and sail are all immutable elements.
In law, certain rights of a defendant are considered to be fundamental and therefore immutable.
The Christian Bible was considered to be the faithful reproduction of the principles believed to have been delivered to mankind by God in ages past, and therefore held to be immutable and infallible.
It was once believed the English language and its vocabulary were immutable; that they would never change or that new words would never be added to the language.
The US government protocol is not described to be able to be changed or to be Mutable , in any situation, this is a movement that cannot be changed in US.
The properties of the chemical elements, such as their atomic weights, are considered immutable; they are so fixed and unalterable.
Some think it to be silly, or even an immutable law of nature that cartoons are only meant for children.
The population's views on the monarchy, however, were immutable.
Human nature, it is believed, is not capable of being altered in any meaningful way.
Despite her seemingly immutable position, the miller's daughter was none too pleased with the proposal.
"The New York Times" is an example of a leading media outlet that has seen much change in its physical publication, but has since its inception retained an objective for being a powerful voice in American Politics.
His principles were regarded as immutable; no one could ever win an argument with him.
The value of pi, the ratio of the distance around a circle to the distance across it, was discovered to be an immutable number by the ancient Greeks.
However, as the sun-set, a cool breeze would blow and all the trees, rocks, earth and even the clouds changed colour before your eyes.


#inexplicable

The inexplicable decline in the nation's economy caused several chain stores to shut down and many malls were left abandoned.
The destruction of the Native American settlements was attended by disease and a high infant mortality rate, but these are only part of the story. It is also completely inexplicable that there were occasional years in which the population actually grew.
The technical explanations of the scandal offered by the authorities were widely seen as excessively complicated and implausible, and even suspected to be an attempt at a cover-up.
The Indian Ocean earthquake of 2004, which triggered a deadly tsunami in Southeast Asia, was inexplicable to scientists studying the Earth's crust.
The fact that the assassination of Julius Caesar occurred in a highly guarded amphitheatre before hundreds of eye-witnesses, is still one of history's most famous and inexplicable murders.
Yet if one examines his goals, it would be impossible to foresee his inexcusable cruelty and the insane measures he would take to achieve them.
The computer technology of the 1920's is still difficult for moderns to comprehend, let alone the average citizen of the time.
Despite the popular explanation having significant circumstantial evidence, his decision to invade Afghanistan at that time and for those reasons seems inexplicable.
The actions of the 9/11 hijackers may never be truly explained or understood.
Our knowledge of the laws of physics is not yet good enough to explain some of the more recent occurrences that defy them, like teleporting a book from one place to another.
The inexplicable fact remains that every piece of ancient Egyptian literature mentions the Hittites and their interactions with the Egyptians.
Some find it almost inexplicable that a majority in the US congress are not in favour of the state of Palestine being granted its long overdue recognition at the UN.
The crash of Flight 101 was the result of an unfortunate series of human errors, but the circumstances surrounding it and the incapacity of investigators to find a rational explanation after the fact made it all but inexplicable.
The inexplicable presence of the fern in the planet's atmosphere was an enigma to earth scientists.
The inexplicable phenomenon was witnessed by hundreds of people.
The inexplicable melancholy that had settled in her heart since her last phone call with her mother lingered for weeks.
The assassination of US President John F. Kennedy in 1963 remains inexplicable.
Many people find it hard to understand how a state of peace can exist when there exist people with utterly different ideas.
The destruction of the ancient Mayan city of Tikal remains as one of the most inexplicable losses of advanced ancient civilization.
How the laws of physics and physical constants lead to the development of potentially life are still largely inexplicable.
The news of JFK's assassination was met with shock and inexplainable grief.
An inexplicable gap in the record of the ancient Greek poet Sappho's life and work exists between cla.
The inexplicable fact, even after the supposed fall of magnetism, compasses were still being used extensively across the globe.
She suffered from an inexplicable sickness that rendered her bedridden for months, and all the doctors did was give her prescriptions for painkillers.
Despite the fact that the library was found more than 400 years ago, the fact that it existed at all remained inexplicable for many decades.
Despite the fact that your fingerprints were found all over the gun and you still have some of the victims' blood on your clothes, your claim that an intruder broke into your house, killed your sister and then somehow vanished without setting off any of your
Neurologists have not been able to find any explanation for the phenomenon, and psychical researchers have offered no evidence to support the theory that it is the effect of a disembodied spirit.
I was intrigued by the circumstances leading up to General von Hindenberg's death since they were so inexplicable.
His inability to explain away the discrepancies in his story with a straight face made what he was saying implausible, if not downright impossible.
It was inexplicable that the man could survive such a vicious and brutal attack.
Many scholars at the time found his story of a man living in a cave with dwarves, dragons and fairies to be nothing more than an inexplicable and irrational fantasy.
A viable excuse or reason often learned after the fact.
It is still not known how the Mayans developed their highly sophisticated calendar system, one of the most intricate ever developed.
The inexplicable events that occur at Loch Ness have brought the site international fame and make it one of the most visited tourist destinations in Great Britain.
It is inexcusable that the government did not prevent the disaster.
The inexplicable giant blocks of stone found all over the place at Stonehenge lead some to believe that it was built by an alien civilization.
Unaware of the impending danger, the Incas failed to mount a successful resistance to the conquistadors.
Nothing in the records about her early life explains why she was chosen by the Emperor to wear the mask.
The inexplicable disappearance of the nine-year-old child was widely reported in the media.
Many American colonists saw the presence of British soldiers as an inexplicable infringement on their rights.
It is a complete mystery to all why in the early 15th century the people of Europe suddenly decided to start wearing their clothes backwards.
The unexplainable event lasted for a whole ten minutes, and we still don't have an explanation for it.
She didn't know the reason for such inexplicable behaviour from the man who was practically a second father to her.
How could a government that has been so successful in solving crime suddenly become inept in this way? It would be an inexcusable mistake to allow the government to acquire this power.
The inexplicable events that occurred that day are impossible to be understood by anyone...or are they?
The sudden collapse of the Roman Empire in the 5th century remains to this day an inexplicable scenario, with countless theories being put forward by prominent historians.
Sudden inexplicable deformities in farm animals in rural towns have been linked to nuclear waste disposal problems.
The inexplicably complex building techniques used in the ancient world still puzzle historians today.
The main reason for the rejection of his theories by many within his discipline was that his ideas were seen as too abstract and inexplicable.
While he was in prison he wrote a long letter to the unknown reader explaining his views on religion, politics and society.
The countless inexplicable undersea noises, the pings that seem to last a split second and then fade into nothingness.
David was unable to provide an explanation for his presence there, and so he was fired.
It was always my opinion that his fervent support for the Iraq war during a time when it had low public support was an inexplicable error of judgment.
Many thought his actions during the crisis were inexplicable, although subsequent reports have described the situation in the country at the time as being severely agitated.
These inexplicable events continue to fascinate us and have amassed quite a following.
Despite his clothes being in tatters, he is lucuasly unhurt and his survival is totally inexplicabl
The destruction of the World Trade Center has so far been unaccounted for; conspiracy theories abound about who is really responsible.
Some events in life are difficult to explain but we must come to terms with them and continue our lives without over-analysing the negative aspects.
The inexplicable beating stopped as suddenly as it began and never happened again, but its effects on the young boy's character were irreversible.
Mr. Smith's accusation of the senator, while given with a great deal of public fanfare, was not entirely without precedent.
The inexplicable burning of the library at Alexandria remains an enduring mystery.
The location of the temple has always been inexplicable to historians, as its exact site has never been determined.
The sudden collapse of Native American civilization after the discovery of the New World in 1492 has always been regarded as inexplicable.
How the universe was created remains inexplicable.
Professor: She was as opposed to the war as anyone else in the school, but her opposition was always based on moral grounds, not on any economic or political complaint because these did not exist.
The inexplicable discovery was made last night at the ruins of the old ch
The reason for your mother's inexplicable hatred of you was finally uncovered years after her death.
He didn't offer an explanation for his abnormal behaviour, instead just continuing to watch you.
It is yet another inexplicable tragedy that such a young life has been cut short.
Why a loving God would allow his son to die for our sins is one of life's great mysteries - a mystery which is as inexplicable as God himself.
The explosion had no discernible cause and experts cannot explain its occurrence.
The mysterious lights that Dart Group scientist observed during the experiment were described by him as being ‘inexplicable and supernatural'.
Many physical constants essential to life as we know it.
The loss of and failure to find the two airplane carrying remains of the United 93 and American 77 is an inexplicably confusing aspect of the worst terrorist attacks ever to have been carried out on American soil.
The inexplicable decision to give a convicted drug dealer another chance
The inexplicable appearance of snow in Baghdad, which usually lies in the region around 32ºC in July surprised many citizens.
Its apparent collapse in the fifth century remains inexplicable.
The series of events leading to the inevitable collapse of the Roman Empire is arguably without parallel in European history.
The fact that the union was unable to prevent the closure of Swallow and Fresh was seen as an inexplicable failure by many of its members.
The inexplicably high temperatures of the water have led many to avoid using it for washing and other daily hygiene.
Despite the fact that a mountain of candy and a bottomless supply of soda pop and beer was inexplicably provided for their enjoyment at the finish line, many runners I spoke to said they had no intention whatsoever of doing the event again.
Knut's death is still considered one of the great unsolved mysteries of the modern age.
The inexplicable explosion happened without warning and was reportedly seen by hundreds of people.
It is impossible to know with certainty Attila the Hun's motivation for attacking the Western Roman Empire as he did.
How it was possible for someone to walk the entire way around the world before modern technology would be considered an inexplicable miracle by most people.
Despite the fact that his actions had won the war for them, many of Washington's comrades were at pains to emphasize that they didn't fully understand his actions and thought them inexcusable.
The death of Chris is truly an inexplicable loss to our department, his absence is missed.
the inexplicably cruel methods of execution used in the French Revolution
The inexplicable fog defied any known laws of physics, and enveloped an entire mountain range in seconds.
The situation in which Oscar Pistorius claimed he shot and killed his girlfriend is completely inexplicable and he should have thought out the implications before pulling the trigger of his gun.
The destruction of the World Trade Centre on September 11, 2001 was an inexplicable act of terror that killed nearly three thousand people and still has not been claimed by any terrorist organization.
The inexplicable tingling they caused was not present in any other part of her body and continued steadily for the next five minutes.
Their inexplicable presence in the cave had somehow made them all younger.
I think the reason why the students didn't protest against the war is because they found it inexplicable that their own government would do such a thing.
You as
However, it remains the most inexplicable decision in the history of military strategic thinking.
Ever since the inexplicable disease first came to the surface, it has been terrorizing our once great civilization.
The inexplicable attitudes of the guard and the prisoner, combined with the incongruity between them, made you suspicious.


#mask

Another, more modern approach to the problem of aging is to use special masks that filter out harmful substances in the outside air.
For the intents and purposes of this question, we have defined a mask as a cover or concealment for one's true intentions.
The man's beard and mustache were stained, Clumsily and unevenly, to a medium brown. The hair on his head was cut
The man's beard and mustache were stained, Clumsily and unevenly, to a medium brown. The hair on his head was cut short and the stubble on his face was three or four days of growth.
The man's beard and mustache were stained, Clumsily and unevenly, to a medium brown. The hair on his head was cut short and the stubble on his face was three or four days of growth.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
credible energy source.
The French National Assembly also agreed to several rights for the free people in 1789.
