

#undermine

The government's policy to allow the purchasing of corporate shares has undermined investor confidence and lead to a slump in the stock market.
The accident undermined my faith in the government's concern for our safety.
The inability of the Nationalists to unite against the Japanese greatly undermined their ability to wage an effective defense leading to their eventual surrender.
The historian Thomas Carlyle once said that "Philosophy is the endeavor to answer, as well as possible, three serious questions: What am I? Where have I come from? and,Where am I going?"
Quack doctors in the past undermined public faith in the medical profession by their incompetence.
Some thinkers such as John Locke argued for personal rights, such as the right to life, liberty and property, and argued that the government should be imposed on people to protect them from anyone who would take away those rights.
The official purpose of these missions was to spread and establish Catholicism to which the majority of the people in newly acquired lands had already been converted, however missionary activity also served to undermine existing religions due to its generous use of gifts and 'spiritual aid
The government, they believe, should defend its citizens' freedom to make the best choices for themselves without the potential of harmful outside influences such as media reports or public opinion to undermine this freedom.
Stalin's heavy-handed administration undermined the equal distribution of land and rights that had been established by the tsar after the Russian revolution.
The rise of materialism during the European Renaissance undermined the concept of the Church as the centre of universal understanding.
The people protested against the new law, claiming that it undermined their religious freedom.
As I said, there are many weak and poor countries where national governments do not exist at all. These countries are usually known as anarchies or more commonly "failed states".
The main reason for the British failure to capture Washington was that the Americans' defence strategy of undermanned outposts undermined British plans because the Washington garrison could easily reinforce the outposts.
The lack of training or knowledge of the teachers was no problem for a short-term program but it undermined the success of the longer-term institutions.
Wealthy landowners and merchants had always been disliked, but now they became hated.
Due to the poisonous gas emanating from the crater, people living in the vicinity have complained of headaches and nausea, which could undermine the structural integrity of their dwellings.
The High Renaissance was a time in which many intellectual and scholarly minds attempted to undermine the foundations of humanistic thought during the fifteenth century.
The students' yelling and jeering undermined the principal's authority.
Decimation was a brutal punishment that could be used to punish units that performed cowardly during battle and was intended to 'undermine' the worth of an individual in a unit and replace them with someone who would fight harder.
The Prime Minister's speech at the party convention today will seek to undermine confidence in the policies of the opposition.
Atheism is the absence of belief in a god or the belief that gods do not exist. It can also be defined as a denial of the existence of God.
The new defence system undermines our capacity to fight off foreign aggression.
Queensland's public sector was undermined by poor industrial relations and a lack of political support for financial autonomy.
The women were forced to work long hours in terrible conditions which undermined their health and caused a high turnover of staff.
The financial burden of paying for the high cost of new technologies often undermines the profitability of this business model.
The new information undermines the previous belief that humans migrated from Africa in a single migration event
The Thirty Years' War undermined Spain's status as a first-rank European power, while its empire was fading even before the war broke out.
The OPEC Embargo undermined the dominance of the U.S dollar as the world's reserve currency and it also strengthened the influence that the oil-producing nations had on international affairs.
The idea that women don't enjoy or seek sexual encounters detracts from their power and undermines their status as human beings.
Her seemingly unfounded and relentless criticisms of the government are perceived by some to undermine the public's faith in said government.
The present situation is serious, but it should not be allowed to undermine our efforts to spread the empire's borders.
During the protests, the crowds were united by a common desire to undermine the President's power.
All the decadent carvings on the temple pillars and walls, which portrayed scenes of rural life and nature worship, undermined the legitimacy of the Church's values of prayer and faith, as these were high religious icons dedicated to St. Thomas.
The Norman invasion ultimately undermined Anglo-Saxon society, leading to the loss of territory and influence for the Anglo-Saxons.
The major causes of the war can be traced back to the French Revolution, which sought to undermine many governing institutions that many European countries had in common at that time.
How do you know that I am not lying to you and am in fact the man you seek?
The protectionism of the 1980s undermined the free market foundations that had contributed to British prosperity in the 1880s.
The implication of this statement undermined the principle that no person was above the law.
The health and safety legislation was created to prevent the occurrence of disasters such as the one that I am sure you all learned about in school, but it may be that the very existence of this law is creating a false sense of security and undermining people
One of the major reasons why the Roman Empire collapsed was because of how they allowed conquered people to maintain their religions and ways of life. This undermined the idea that Roman religion was superior to all others.
-Driven by the irresponsible actions of a few, the government felt it necessary to abolish the right to trial by jury. the consumption of alcohol in public places was thought to undermine family values, so it was banned from all such places.
The Roman Emperor at the time, Constantine, saw that this new religion could be a tool to unite his warring Empire and so attempted to use it to undermine the unity of other countries' beliefs.
The weakening of traditional family units has undermined the institution of marriage and ultimately the very basis of society.
The belief that the world is flat-- long after it was known to be flat-- made perfect sense and did not undermine people's faith.
The brutal rule of the Mongols helped undermine the strength of the Islamic Empire.
The imprisonment of hundreds of dissidents in the months before the Olympics undermines the claim that Beijing is a liberal, progressive city.
She didn't mean to undermine him, but she accidentally insulted him.
The Glorious Revolution of 1688 led to the strengthening of Parliament, which undermined the power of the monarch and several attempts by royalists to restore the power of the Crown failed.
Despite their differences, the elite classes in both German states worked in unity to maintain their grip on power and sought to undermine the liberal movement through coercion.
Employer power undermines trade union power by allowing the businesses to fire, transfer or otherwise discipline workers who are active in trade unions.
I think that this kind of pedantic nit-picking undermines all the professed belief in freedom you claim to have.
How the upper classes have undermined the moral fabric of society by promoting selfishness and greed
The move was intended to undermine the position of the Church in Irish society and allow for more autonomy from England.
The reforms aimed to undermine the power of the autonomous guilds that dominated life in the towns.
However, a combination of factors, including the undermining and despotic nature of Tudor rule in Ireland, led to rebellions.
The Council of Trent is considered a failure because it did not address the issue of how to bring the increasingly Protestant population back into the Church.
Despite the spread of democracy in ancient Athens, the underprivileged relied on daily help from the wealthier citizens, since many democratic institutions such as the courts and assembly, were unable to provide for their needs.
Undermining the authority of the king was a radical move with numerous consequences for the English monarchy and neighboring countries.
The government's attempts to undermine the influence of religion in society have been ineffective.
The government's announcement that it would be streamlining the police force was seen as an attempt to undermine the power of the union.
The evidence J. F. Kennington presents in his book 'Gentleness' undermines the case of the defendant.
The purpose of eugenics has always been to thwart what was seen as nature's tendency to undermine the quality of the human species.
The Taj Mahal was built between 1631 and 1653, by orders of the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan.
The conference hopes to strengthen and rebuild the economies of these countries in order to undermine the power base of the terrorists.
The Nazis believed that urbanization was a sign of Jewish influences, and these cities were to be returned to a more rural state in order to undermine the idea of the Jews being a "chosen people".
The development of parliamentary institutions and universal suffrage in 19th-century Europe undermined the belief that royalty and aristocracy were superior.
The common belief that people with ADD do not suffer from learning disabilities, but instead are simply lazy and lack the motivation to pay attention, is in reality what is causing the learning disability.
The payments made to our politicians should be enough to ensure their loyalty and not be so high that they undermine the moral fabric of our society.
During this period the power of the Crown was beginning to undermine the influence of the nobility.
The existence of the two has often been used to undermine Capitalism.
The rise of Communism in Russia created the anarchist movement in the 19th and 20th centuries that undermined the concept of nation states.
The rapid expansion of the Internet has had a decidedly negative effect on the publishing industry, which has undermined many traditional news sources.
The German people's trust in their government was undermined by news of the secret negotiations between Hitler and the British Prime Minster.
The recent terrorist attacks have undermined the government's claims that the island was safe.
The bombing was carried out in order to undermine the moral of the citizens.
The rise of an alternative trade union movement undermined the popularity of the ACWU.
The government said the report would undermine their case against the accused.
In reality, the proposed reform program was likely to undermine the dictatorship rather than strengthen it.
The problem with the current system of constructing period houses is that it doesn't take into account that parts of they are made of wood and those parts need to be replaced every now and again.
The republic was always haunted by the suspicion that the emperor wantonly sough
The state of the roads in the Roman Empire undermined the efficiency of the army and the ability of officials to administer the sprawling empire.
I think the demonization of the Cathars undermined the justification for the crusade in the eyes of people like us, who think in terms of fundamental human rights and individual freedom.
The building's structural weakness was exacerbated by the presence of mine tunnels that undermined its foundations.
Although it has always been a possibility that the court could rule to undermine the very law that paved the way for the creation of Myron's company, he was confident that this would be a temporary set back at worst.
The findings of the study undermine its original purpose, which was to prove that people learn better with new technology.
His actions didn't undermine the legitimacy of the monarchy during this period, though they certainly helped pave the way for its abolition in 1789.
Conducted in the Australia of the 1950s, this is an example of a study that can not be replicated today due to moral controversies and an increased awareness of the possibility of destroying someone's life by way of undermining their sense of self.
The World Wildlife Fund have called for a halt in logging operations in the upper reaches of the Amazon River basin, warning that the activities threaten the habitat of several rare species of plants and animals.
The American military buildup in Grenada, along with the regional crisis it triggered, undermined Soviet attempts to gain greater influence over the island.
Ans: The Christian Church undermined the institution of slavery by justifications for freeing slaves in the Bible and its emphasis on equality and individual rights.
During the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the British Army tried to undermine the support for the terrorist organisation, the IRA.
The Roman government's policy of undermining the financial base of their enemies by counterfeiting their currency caused economic chaos.
The repressive rulers inadvertently undermined public faith in their governments by censoring the publication of any information.
The constant belittling by the coach undermined her confidence
It was the belief that capitalism undermines the foundations that create a stable society that lead to this decline.
The destruction of the libraries and replacement of the city's scholars with a priestly class meant that intellectual thought soon stagnated and contributed to the fall of the Mayan civilization.


#antithetical

He felt that as a Jew he didn't have the opportunity to pursue many career paths and so he had become a butler, which to him was antithetical to his beliefs.
It can be argued that the figure of 'Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde' is somewhat antithetical to the kind of role model one would expect in a Victorian era story.
The underlying philosophies of Buddhism and Hajnalism are in direct antithesis to each other.
The greater a society's wealth, the more the values of that society tend to be focused on money, and the less the values of that society are focused on human needs and stewardship of the planet.
The belief that all religions are equal is a misguided and naive one since all religions are not equal and they are far from being antithetical.
The idea that a fair judicial system should not be subject to political influence by the government is as antithetical to liberal democracies as it is vital.
Plato's Republic is considered to be a direct antithesis to Aristotle's thoughts on the theory of government.
The ideas of feminism and conservatism are fundamentally antithetical.
Karl Marx's philosophical oppositions of the concepts of dialectical thinking and concrete thinking would be antithetical to Hegel's position.
Due to the nature of their work, which involves sorting out disputes between people, it is natural that tax collectors will often come across disagreements, however they must remain impartial and not take one side over another.
The ideas of the Enlightenment are antithetical to the ideas of the medieval period.
The Russian loanword тусовка or "tusovka," which refers to a group of people with a common interest, specifically one that is artistic or intellectual in nature.
The Jedi religion was founded on the principles of peace, and its philosophies are antithetical to my own intent to conquer the galaxy.
To the beliefs of Buddhism, which are primarily focused on detachment from the world, action in the pursuit of selfish goals such as material wealth is antithetical.
The beliefs of the early Christians in the Roman era is considered by many to be antithetical to that of the Romans, which may have hastened the movement's demise.
Antithetical means opposite. For instance, the two qualities of brilliant and dim are antithetical.
These two approaches to the Hindu doctrine are antithetical; in other words they are exact opposites.
The Vandals' seemingly irrational plundering of Rome and contempt for Roman culture was antithetical to the reverence that Romans accorded to their heritage, and this self-destructive impulse ultimately led to its downfall.
A trade union defending the rights of workers is quite a different concept from an organisation antithetical to the concept of trade unions.
The peaceful nature of Buddhism is antithetical to the determinedly warlike ideology of Islam.
In one of his most famous books, "The Republic", Plato described two types of societies, the "healthy" and the "sick".
George Washington was considered to be the antithesis of the tyrannical British monarchy.
The concept of a society without the state is often considered antithetical to the needs and desires of human beings. Still, in the early history of mankind, the existence of the state was not inevitable.
The aim of this course is to study the thoughts of western philosophers from the pre-Socratics up until the present day.
The macro view of the world taken by physicists is often directly opposite to that of a humanist.
The two ideologies could not have been more antithetical: fascism is collectivist, while communism is definitely anti-elitist.
The use of shock and awe tactics were largely antithetical to the principles that America seeks to uphold.
The policy of containment was antithetical to the philosophy of rollback which was preferred by the Douglas MacArthur and other figures
The concept of a single all-powerful deity who is distant from human concerns and the concept of a god who is intimately involved in human affairs are antithetical.
The very qualities that helped Eric achieve success in his career, like being amicable, were considered antithetical to being a good revolutionary.
The governments of Canberra and New Brasilia both claimed sovereignty over the region, each one antithetical to the other.
Human sacrifice was practiced in many cultures in the ancient world, but it was antithetical to the values of the Hebrew tribes of the desert.
As an artistic movement, surrealism is antithetical to traditional African art.
The United States Civil War is considered to be the beginning of the end of private military forces and the Antithesis to the European system of government.
Stalinism was antithetical to the spirit of democracy, central to Marxism.
The individualistic ideas of self-sufficiency and hard work being promoted by American society are antithetical to the communal traditions upheld by many Native American tribes.
The first principle of constitutional law is that the government cannot take away rights which are fundamental to the nation. This is also known as the antitaricism or forbiddance doctrine.
As a pacifist and humanist, Socrates's views on morality and religion are antithetical to those of the American right wing.
The philosophical concept of free will vs. determinism is antithetical to the Christian notion of salvation and predestination, which says that our fates are sealed through divine intervention.
The main character in The Catcher in the Rye is a contradictory figure. On one hand he is authentic and honest but on the other he is an unreliable narrator and his attitude is antithetical to that of modern society.
A: The materialist view of the world and the belief in any sort of religious faith are antithetical, or at least in serious contradiction.
The democratic society and the totalitarian ideology are antithetical, meaning they cannot co-exist within the same political framework.
The experience of the Blitz was antithetical to popular belief.
The Roman Republic was based on antidemocratic and antithetical principles to the oligarchy of the early Roman Empire.
The concept that criticism will spur the administration into meaningful action is in many ways antithetical to the way governments usually work.
The values of community living and support for the elderly, sick and children are antithetical to the ideals held by political party A.
The belief that all religions are equally valid is an antithesis to the spirit of the Age of Reason.
The pair's dress sense and musical taste were antithetical.
The tenents of Fascism are antithetical to the ideals that America was founded upon.
The Red and Black alliance was based on an antithetical contrast of ideals.
The new medium of television have two main functions to fulfil. The first is to entertain, and this function has been carried out from the start by TV.
The first of these was the lesser-known idea that the Bible is divinely inspired by the Holy Spirit and therefore perfect and infallible
The protestant reformation was a movement which involved a breaking away from the power structure of the Catholic Church in the 16th century.
The Marxist belief that revolution is inevitable, due to economic and societal differences constantly opposing one another (the Hegelian dialectic) is antithetical to conservative ideals of leaving things be.
Religion is often antithetical to free thought and liberal values, which has entrenched it in opposition by many intellectuals.
Classical liberalism is antithetical to radical thinking, as it favors gradual reform or incremental change as opposed to the radical break from tradition that other worldviews may demand.
Elements of the program which were seen as the most antithetical to the cause or our ideals were severely trimmed.
There is a tension between the pursuit of liberty and security.
Traditionally, public education has been seen as a cornerstone of democracy, and this view is still common today; it is antithetical to suggest that the richest family in town should have the right to have their child educated privately rather than alongside the
The beliefs of the ancient world were largely antithetical to those held by Christians today.
The ideas that all humans are equal and that individuals have the power to make their own fate are antithetical concepts.
The idea that all people are equal is antithetical to the idea that some people are superior to others.
The two most prominent antithetical factors were the ideas of kingship and land ownership.
The two ideals were antithetical, and he could not belong to both groups.
The characteristics of Kelso and the experiences he encounters in Ken Kesey' s One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest are as antithetical to those of McMurphy.
Emperor Palpatine, in his goals and methods, was antithetical to the essence of the Republic.
It is necessary to consider the arguments put forward in defence of the Emperor and those who opposed him antithetical.
Religious groups have always been antithetical to one another whenever they come into contact – it is what they were founded upon.
The approach of the two political systems is antithetical: one promotes individuality while the other believes in community values.
From the 16th to the 19th centuries, European colonial powers established hundreds of settlements across Africa.
The ideas of Valesco are often considered to be antithetical to logical scientific thought, yet they have still been used as an inspiration for future scientific research.
The idea that health care should be free for all is antithetical to the capitalistic work ethic that we have in this country.
The Christian humanists believed that the spread of knowledge and use of scientific thinking would result in social good, while the Gothic novels portrayed nobility as sinful and the peasants as poor but happy, thus presenting a worldview that is antithetical to the humanists
Your brother may be a genius, but his ideas on education are antithetical to how you were taught.
Religion is falsely considered by many to be antithetical to science.
It is a matter of historical record that Christianity and the Roman Empire were antithetical until Theodosius I, a zealous Christian emperor, came into power in 380 A.D.
The values of the Aryan race as outlined by Hitler in Mein Kampf, and taught to all German youngsters, were antithetical to those which have been embraced by most western societies – most importantly the tolerance of other races and cultures.
The Christian concept of God and Satan being purely good and evil, respectively, is considered by some to be antithetical in the philosophical concept of Absolute that states that both good and evil are relative.
Shakespeare's ‘Romeo and Juliet' is a classic play about young love.
To say that his beliefs are antithetical to mine would be an understatement.
Relating to the issue of slavery, industrialization's effect on the role of women in society and the role of government in society are all distinctively antithetical.
Heffalumps and woozles are figuratively the antithesis of Heffalumps and Woozles as they purport to be: pleasant, singing animals that like to dance around and make honey.
In his work On the usefulness of fake history, he claims that a true historian must have no opinions due to the unbeatable temptation to deliberately slant your research.
Professor: The idea that leaders should be philosopher kings or alike is fundamentally misguided, antithetical to common humanexperience, and generally unattractive.
The ideology of the modern political movement focused on liberty is antithetical to that of the totalitarian Nazi regime in Germany.
A big city is antithetical to the environment as well as people's health and quality of life.
The aggressive stance that the church adopted during this period was largely influenced by the belief that it was the antithesis to society and the state.
It was the antithesis of a traditional party and its system of government, yet most of its leaders owed their positions to that system; it was monolithic, yet contained serious disagreements on philosophical and economic issues.
Contrary to popular belief, the Church did not simply try to suppress scientific progress during the Middle Ages; often times it actively encouraged scientific attempts to explain the natural world in antithetical language to that of the heretical ideas of Greek philosophy.
The logical development of the English language and the Romantic movement are antithetical.
Professor: The state of nature as described by Hobbes in the Leviathan is antagonistic or opposite.
The current legal system of the United States and other countries is based on two contrasting ideologies, or sets of principles; during the Cold War, these were the ideologies of communism and capitalism.
The Shakespearian work which has as its underlying theme a conflict between emotion and logic, or the thoughtful and the thoughtless is "Hamlet".
The idea that the United Nations should intervene in the Gulf War was antithetical to traditional notions of national sovereignty.
The Battle of Jutland was between the British Royal Navy and the German Imperial Navy.
Cedric's antitechnology beliefs and his anarchistic views on society were antithetical to my own, but I still considered him a friend.
The concepts of the Enlightenment were in antithetical in regards to the ideas of the Medieval period, a time in which traditional values were at their core.
The concept of the divine right of kings is in direct opposition to the concept of a French Republic, which is antithetical to the ideas that gave birth to it.
Some may say that my actions in this war are antithetical to those of my brother before me.


#atypical

The department has three atypical professors, all of which are female.
Having ranting about our journey being long and terrible, Marcus was quieter than usual on the way to the castle.
Most birds can neither fly nor swim, making them atypical amongst vertebrates.
Unusual and without precedent, atypical migratory patterns of birds were witnessed yesterday over the town.
He was an atypical monarch in that he lacked any interest in the pursuit of women and alcohol.
The lack of female presence in universities during the Victorian era was somewhat atypical of emerging modern attitudes toward gender roles, which associated women with homes and men with work.
The neural network was atypical in that it possessed many qualities of a human mind, such asoutspokenness and creative thinking.
While the majority of physicians are white men, there are many atypical ones who break this mould, such as Christiane Northrup, who authored the bookwomen's health bible.
The relatively peaceful and prosperous societies that existed in Denmark and Sweden during the Viking Age were atypical of other early medieval societies in Europe.
Stalin's purges of the 1930s were atypical, as they went against his usual primary focus on building up the economy.
However, in recent years, there have been atypical reports of severe psychosis caused by long-term usage.
It is not true that the majority of Irish people oppose the government; in fact, it is quite atypical for the Irish to embrace radical politics.
The most popular explanation, that the settlers came from Scandinavia during the Viking era, is atypical because the first known Viking settlers in North America discovered a land that was already inhabited.
The psychological profile of the serial killer is atypical; nearly all serial killers are white males with poor intelligence.
Although the typical sufferer of this condition is usually human, there are many instances of dogs and cats that have suffered from this disease.
Despite the eventual decline of the Roman Empire, Marcus Aurelius' reign was arguably atypical of the era in which it took place.
At the time, it was not an entirely atypical choice; many nobility received a formal education in that era.
George Bernard Shaw was an atypical 19th-century Irish philosopher, playwright and novelist.
However, it is an atypical movie for the comedian, in that he is not playing the same character throughout.
Although Sacks is generally thought to be an atypical Oxbridge academic, he was at the same time a talented musician.
The apartment block fire was an atypical safety hazard due to fire code violations found during a routine safety inspection of the building.
A typical hospital patient has been to university, is about 30 to 40 years old, and has a job in a professional services industry.
The former US Secretary of Defense had a reputation for being atypical for her political party.
The symptoms of your disease are not typical of those presented in the textbooks, but rather those described by patients who have been treated unsuccessfully at other hospitals.
The atypical structure of the army, in which people were recruited on a territorial basis as opposed to an individual one, contributed much to its success.
However, the events of the French Revolution were atypical of the rest of Europe during the same time period.
The story of the life of an atypical family whose father is a drunk is not an everyday one.
History is filled with colourful figures and characters, but there are few in the history of humanity whose lives are as atypical as that of Elizabeth Bathory.
Most socialists and Communists in Europe during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries rejected theories proposed by Karl Marx. These theories were seen as atypical of the socialist movement's goals for societal reform.
While the marriage between Eleanor and Louis was atypical for the medieval period, it was fairly typical for a royal couple in the Renaissance era.
It is true that researchers have not yet identified a specific genetic mutation responsible for creating the separate species of humanity, but it would be wrong to label these changes as abnormalities.
The Meiji Restoration, while representing a major social change in the history of Japan was actually very typical of the modernization taking place in most Asian countries during 19th century.
Criminologist and foremost authority on serial killers, Dr. James C. O'Donnell has written extensively on their psychology and behaviour.
The case of Daniel Paul Schreber, a judge regarded as atypical by his contemporaries, provides a rare first-hand account of the nature of paranoia.
While there are many ancient texts that can be classified as among the 'great works' of antiquity, the majority of these texts were by and large typical examples of their respective genres.
In this atypical state, the patient is capable of using all her mental faculties, but is not able to move.
The village barber was an atypical tradesman in the village; he had inherited his position and did not charge very much.
The atypical nature of his behavior in many ways was most probably the result of his upbringing in a society very different from modern day society.
However, the Frenchman Rene Descartes, is considered the greatest philosopher of the 17th century.
The Incas were a typical example of a Native American culture that was destroyed by European settlers.
The medieval period was an atypical era in terms of political structure within Europe.
Little is known of King Arthur'searly life, at least not in the form of great detail as there are multiple versions of the story.
The sleeping sickness epidemic of the early twentieth century, which ravaged Africa and caused millions of deaths, was atypical because it primarily affected humans.
"The most atypical of the presidents," the students all think.
In the era before electronic computers, groups of women filling in a spreadsheet were an atypical sight.
Atypical keratoconus is a disease of the eye in which the cornea thins and bulges, causing many aberations in vision.
His behavior as a shepherd was atypical for the time and led to great changes in the way we think about our relationship with sheep.
The development of a steam-powered engine was quite common in England but quite atypical in France at the time.
At the time most physicians were priests, monks or nuns so a woman practicing medicine was atypical and severely frowned upon.
Several strong and healthy children in a family are atypical of the general population.
Emperor Menelik II is universally celebrated as Ethiopia's most influential monarch, but his wife, Taitu, is atypical of the role of Empress in that she served as a liaison between him and the British and Italian
But, of course, the so-called "Great Man" theory can be criticized on the grounds that it reduces histories to a series of atypical figures and events.
However, in the past five years or so, the role of nurses has surpassed that of their order in importance, and become atypical of the profession as a whole.
The movie is an atypical account of Jack the Ripper since it is told from the perspective of his victims.
I think our neighbours are rich; they own a big house, drive a luxury car, and their clothes are atypical of this area.
Oddly enough, parrots are atypical in that their tastes in food differ greatly from individual to individual.
I think it is important to remember that people of this era were not like us and hence the artefacts, music, writings etc. of that time cannot be expected to be atypical.
The fact that the Mayans used a form of picture writing that was atypical of most other societies is a hindrance to the study of the civilisation, because archaeological evidence is scarce.
The disease is atypical in that it affects people of all ages and the symptoms are different for each person.
On the other hand, an atypical example of a source on women's social history is the graffiti found in the ruins of Pompeii.
His atypical emotional reaction leads many to believe he has mental problems.
Eusebius and other Church fathers of the era believed that Christ's divinity and Messiahship were undeniable truths, but also represented a literal understanding of Jesus' teachings, which was atypical of most theologians at the time.
Though one of the oldest Christian communities in the world, Armenia was one of the last to officially adopt Christianity as its state religion.
The normal human being has fifty bones in their feet and a typical collection of bones in one's foot consists of twenty-six bones.
The vast majority of the reptiles that existed on earth are now extinct, and pterosaurs were by and large atypical of reptiles in many respects.
Cheryl has always been an atypical student. Her grades are always high, but she struggles to fit in with the typical "college experience", namely partying.
The correct answers are the second, sixth and seventeenth.
However, despite having power over life and death of his subjects, the bishop spent most of his time writing letters to various kings, clergymen and other important people of his era, begging for approval from the church.
Your usage of the word "atypical" to describe yourself as a child is atypical.
The war grave hospitals were the first atypical use of castles outside their traditional role of military fortification and residence
While most cactii are typicallysucculent plants, some species have a more fluid water content.
While there is nothing atypical about these changes, the effects they have had on society are quite interesting.
Homosexual relationships between soldiers in the same regiment, and to a lesser extent between soldiers in the same company, was atypical of male sexual relationships of the time.
By the end of his life, Van Gogh's mental stability was atypical and his brother, Theo, took complete control of his affairs.
"TV makes people indifferent to war. If they see it as atypical, they think it's OK.
The average age of the women at this shelter is 35, but Jane is much older than the average resident, and her situation is atypical in many ways.
The shattering of the teapot, which hit the ground and then proceeded to shatter into several large pieces atypical of porcelain, was a surprise.
His superior planning and problem-solving abilities distinguished him from the other Germans serving on the western front, who showed a tendency to rush into things and disregard orders, making them atypical for this period in German military history.
Your attendance is surprisingly atypical of first-year students; typically they take much more time to select their major.
The majority of mammals are in no way atypical, but the platypus has the distinction of being the only mammal to lay eggs.
He was an atypical king for the time, and was extremely intellectual.
But a certain few, usually children who had not been affected to such an extent by the rabies infection, did not develop the aggression and frenzy that is characteristic of the disease. Such patients were considered to have atypical rabies.
The size and placement of the horns on the mammoth make it atypical of modern elephants.
He has an atypical name for a New Zealander, as most of them have names such as 'Bruce' or ‘Kevin'.
While his view of women and his rejection of democracy were typical at the time, he was otherwise atypical of upper-class British men.
The majority of those who were charged with witchcraft and burned at the stake were female, atypical of other crimes where the genders are usually equally punished.
The university had set up an atypical program, entailing that all students were required to work on campus.
There are many problems with the study, ranging from the small sample size to the fact that the control group were subjected to atypical conditions.


#commend

The Emperor, seeing my logic, ceased his protests and rather commended me for my actions.
I would like to commend you for winning that tennis match yesterday.
But this commend of Catholicism alone is not enough to satisfy the needs which gnaw at your soul.
In his speech, he harshly criticizes the Prime Minister.
I commend you on your report, it is by far the best one in the class.
Before sending his armies into Persia, Alexander the Great sent ambassadors to the rulers of the conquered territories in order to commend the governors and ensure they remained loyal.
The formalised system of commendation by the government for work well done was first suggested by Professor Jane Runnion-Crowley in her treatise "A History of Commendation in the Workplace".
The king decided to punish the village, and the military commander there, who he thought had not adequately protected it; however, upon hearing his explanation and other testimony, he concluded that no blame lay with him.
The purpose of the article was to commend the government for not cutting medical funding and other public spending programs.
The peace settlement can be commended for bringing an end to open conflict, but it caused resentment among many ordinary people who felt that the terms were too lenient towards the enemy.
As a result, the then-governor of the colony decided that pardoning Fitch for his mutinous behavior would be seen as an endorsement of mutiny by future subjects, so he did not do so.
The United Nations in New York City has identified and condemned multiple countries that have condoned policies of child labour.
The writers of the Federalist Papers believed that a republic form of government was the best form of government, since all the people are affected by government and have an interest in it.
Your efforts to improve the quality of life for those detained at the prison camp were commendable, but your decision to leave your post was still tantamount to desertion.
"I know you will be missed Bertrand, and I want to take this opportunity to commend you on your fine work. Your legacy will not be forgotten."
Prime Minister Joseph Philippe, Comte de Villèle, a conservative and an opponent of Napoleon, was trusted by the king; he had also been a minister of Louis XVIII and one of the architects of the Charter of 1814.
The police officer was highly commended for her brave actions during the hunt for the man-eating lions.
To be so certain about something that you are willing to stake your life on it.
Detective: Any suggestions or leads I should follow?
The government has been criticised for taxing each of the three commodities, but less than its competitors do.
It was an outstanding performance which I shall always commend you for.
I'm afraid I can't really commend you for your use of language in this paper.
Even though Jones and Smith both ran very good, clean races, only one of them can win the prize, and the judges have a difficult decision to make because both of their performances were so equally commendable.
However, some studies have shown that people who work the night shift run a higher risk of developing certain types of cancer and heart diseases.
Despite the countless problems that plagued this period, the Congress of Berlin did afford Europe ten years of peace after the 1815 Congress of Vienna.
The dean wanted to commend the student for speaking up so boldly and revealing the professor's mistake in front of the whole class.
I would not have expected to hear such a word in a national newspapers in this day and age, but the tabloid press is prone to such out-of-date linguistic flourishes.
The ability of a person to defend themselves against infectious diseases is considered a genetic factor, and one that we should certainly not feel guilty about.
There is nothing more commendable than preventing the execution of a peasant
It is nearly always possible to take a private car, a train or a plane, but my father always recommends that we travel by car because he thinks it's safer.
Most jurors would find it very difficult not to condemn a person when the verdict would give them and their families a comfortable life in exchange for the death of another.
I would not have thought Royal could have made the changes had he not been thoroughly prepared by his experience with Velma Demerson, a deaf woman Royal met through an interpreter in 1949.
The film is so good that I could not find any part of it worthy of commendation.
She was always ready to commend those who told the truth.
Although her work in linguistics has been criticized as unscientific, she was commended for her experimental use of a method that would later become known as liguistics.
The commandant commended the sergeant on executing the order so quickly and accurately.
While the civil authorities of the city attempted to regain control of the streets and buildings, rival gangs were already murdering each other in their attempts to gain complete lawless control over Dublin's most profitable Bawdy houses and gambling dens.
The hierarchy of the Catholic Church remains active in political issues and the hierarchy has influence over the decisions of politicians.
His friends lavished him with praise, and his enemies praised haughty demeanor.
I commend you on your studies so far, James. If I were you I would keep on this path. It's a steep climb but the view from the top is wonderful!
They would certainly commend you on your efforts at the very least.
The authors commend the government on its speedy action on this issue.
The main point that Chomsky is trying to commend in this essay is the importance of critical thinking. This is something he believes we ought to practice in our everyday lives.
I would not presume to 'command' you anything under any circumstances, but I know that I can 'recommend' something to you with confidence that you will find it beneficial.
His attempts to bring the criminal activities of the banking system to light were brave but his tactics were not always in a good cause; many of his attacks were highly personal and unfair.
The Vietnamese government officials are commended for their transparency and honesty in your experience of dealing with them, particularly when you contrast their behaviour with the corruption and less than exemplary ethic of officials from other Asian countries where you have done business.
It is a little known fact that the first person to reach the summit of Mount Everest was not a highly trained Sherpa mountaineer, but the British Commander in Chief of India, Lord Edmund Hilary.
Golding wrote a novel in which he attempted to offer some explanation and consolation for the immense suffering that was taking place at that time, and even went so far as to commend the bomb as a ‘beneficent' event
While Clausewitz is famed as a military theorist, his main work Vom Kriege (On War) has a broader focus.
You give the professor a look of disapproval.
You listen intently, and make notes on the information the professor is giving you.
found that life was boring and mundane.
Cabeza de Vaca spent the next seven years wandering through North America with a few companions, at one time being captured by Indians and later being released and traveling to Mexico City.
The king's advisor commended the general for his service to the crown.
The soldiers were commended for their bravery and each given a medal.
She felt she had to do something to stop the violence. She couldn't just commend it on and pretend it wasn't happening.
Taking credit for someone else's work is a serious matter and should not be undertaken without due care and attention.
Unfortunately, he was too busy to take it in, so John took the letter, addressed it and paid the postage.
It is possible that the Prime Minister will commend the intelligence services for uncovering the assassination conspiracy.
"There is nothing that you can reconcile to a just and almighty God, but that you may also consistently embrace and entertain the highest ideas of His wisdom, goodness and power."
I would like to commend you all on your efforts in this class; you have really proven yourselves to be dedicated and seriously scholarly students.
She is reserved and quiet, but when she speaks you can tell that she really knows her stuff and genuinely cares about her patients. It is always a pleasure when she is on duty.
Although the South Korean government's decision to implement a strict blacklist system may have seemed an effective way to prevent cross-border crimes, it was severely criticized for infringing on civil liberties and not having a positive impact on crime rates.
I think you should commend Jane for her achievement.
I cannot too strongly recommend that you study as hard as you can and listen to the advice of your teachers.
Although the Senate officially had no control over Augustus's actions, they gave him a unique title that commended all of his actions and authority to the senate.
The commander congratulated his team on their victory.
I would praise his service and recommend him for promotion.
As a career military man, Washington had great difficulty in this role at first, but in time he came to be regarded as one of the most competent commanders in the British army, due in part to his willingness to listen to advice from his subordinates
He was commended by the Queen for his brave and selfless actions during the crisis.
It is important to note that two leaders of the Church during the time of St.Patrick, Bishop Nixon and his successor Bishop Miln, apparently did commend good works on behalf of the soul.
You: The US government should use private military contractors in overseas war zones to reduce waste and increase the competency of military operations in these delicate regions.
Otto believed that if he could get Clara to play the song, the Queen would be so moved by it that she would immediately commute his sentence.
The government has committed to providing increased funding in the police, to counter the rising concerns of an increase in terrorist attacks.
He is able to take on a managerial role and feel comfortable delegating tasks to others but he also likes to be hands-on when it comes to projects he feels strongly about and would rather not see them fail, so he will often be in
I would be more than happy to oblige you in this task.
The General Constantia Zucca commended the bravery of her defeated enemy after the battle.
Given his character, it's hardly surprising that he wrote a letter to the King urging him to fly the English flag over Bengal and also commending the generals who had driven the British out of India.
Captain Lancaster and Sergeant Young are greatly commended for their courage under fire.
My mother, who is many things, but never disapproving or judgmental of me, would have wished me to take a wife. A commoner of course; one who could give birth to many children and whom I could..
I always appreciate your enthusiasm for the subject, but I think that you are overzealously trying to "drag me into the twentieth century".
To commend the city's artistic and cultural heritage, a new museum was opened last year.
It is not clear why he murdered his parents, but the judge said he took a commend in his actions
To 'commend' is to advise or suggest, and if you were to tell someone that they have a nice house, you would be commending them on their choice of home.
Ultimately, it is up to you to commend him for his work and judge him suitable for the position.


#constrain

Unsurprisingly, these new restrictions on religion constrained the Christians' free exercise of religion and caused tensions over religious policy to escalate.
The market will continue to constrain the opportunities for most families.
The fundamental distinction between reality and fiction is that reality consistently causes constraints on the actions that we can perform.
There are a number of constraints that could be used against the government.
The decrease in funding of the space program has forced NASA to constraint its operations.
The sixth century Latin poem The Battle of the Frogs and the Mice illustrates how ecosystems are constrained through their predators limiting prey species.
When it began to be used for this purpose, its meaning was constrained to systems controlling the flow of water or air.
The issue of the nation's state debt became more acute as the parliament agreed to the demands of King George III to put in place new taxes to both constrain the debt and for the various wars that the British decided to participate in such as the
The static nature of his music constraints him from fully capturing the chaos of war.
The civil rights movement in the United States during the 1950s and early 1960s attempted to counteract the effects of centuries of institutionalized racism.
It is an important factor in societies where citizens are constrained by few limitations of choice or action.
In the modern day and age we don't feel constrained to act in such ways.
The hotel manager claimed that building a branch near the beach would constrain its growth and attract too many visitors to the area.
The Common Agricultural Policy was a system that constrained the agricultural market within the Union by levying taxes on certain goods.
It was ultimately constraints imposed by the state on the Church that lead to the Church's decline in power.
The only way to constrain the Church's growth is through military force, which is not really an option.
The engine is under a great constraint, so it will need to be connected to a large power source.
If one thinks that the actions of criminals are constrained by their mental states, then one must realize that criminals can be cunning.
One of the constraints on the development of Canadian nationalism is the lack of a strong, central government able to deal with all the issues involved in nation building.
The problem with many viruses is that they are constrained to working within the life cycle of their hosts and many do not survive outside the host for very long.
The Dutch system of intermittent dykes and dams constrained the river into a more narrow channel.
It's not often that someone in your position gets to tell people in high places what to do.
However, when the rich farm owners (the big landowners) wanted to employ them they insisted that the farm workers couldn't leave their jobs to work for another landlord without good reason (such as a very high fine).
As a republic, the United States tries to constrain itself by the rule of law.
It was the desire to break the constraints of traditional roles that led to the emergence of an intellectual movement among the educated middle class in Europe
We typically conceive of the number line running from negative infinity to positive infinity, without any barriers to keep the numbers contained; any number we can think of is on the number line.
The constraints of Victorian Era society compelled her to conceal her true emotions.
Constraining the general population's access to weapons without having to impose too great a restriction on their right to defend themselves is a difficult challenge for governments.
The government believed that it was acting in the best interests of the people, and that belief constrained it from behaving in the same way as other governments of the time.
His success came to him only after years of study and struggle, during which he was constrained by his limited abilities, or the scarce time he could devote to study.
The reforms aimed at restricting the terms of civil servants and judicial constraints on parliament were designed to prevent the possibility of another dictatorship happening again.
It is interesting to note that the government has always tried to constrain the power of the trade unions.
An increase in types of technology and media also increases the amount of advertisements that the consumers see, which then constrains them to buy the products they see advertised on TV.
The railroads constrained Mexico's ability to trade with the rest of world, making it reliant on the United States;
The resources of the colony were not limitless, and they had to be constrained so that there was enough for everyone.
The bylaws of the company were changed to free the directors from constraints imposed on them by shareholders.
The 1648 Treaty of Westphalia ushered an "age of balance of power" in which the ambition of rulers was constrained by new international conventions, like territorial integrity of states, self determination, and inviolability of foreign ambassadors.
The scientific method constraints the scientist to only report his theories if they can be proven through experimentation.
The modern state's need for economic growth constrains its ability to pursue ecological sustainability.
The Great Terror of 1937 in the Soviet Union was caused mainly by Stalin's attempt to eradicate all potential political opposition.
Indeed, the belief that people are constrained by their medium has been applied to every aspect of life.
It was difficult to say whether or not the law constrained him from acting as he did.
The common theme of many of the constraints on a government is that it needs to maintain a healthy relationship with its population.
The constraints of his private life are at odds with his public persona.
Due to financial constraints the city is not in a position to offer any kind of financial support for building new stadiums.
The code of true conduct, or the rules governing sexual encounters were quite complex and constrained the British officers.
Personal religious beliefs do not often constrain the actions of world leaders.
All religions are to some extent constrained in their development by other religions, governments and popular opinion.
They decided to buy a house of their own and constrained by his salary, he could not afford anything better than a small apartment.
Brenda was unhappy with the dress I had got her, so she bought a belt and some Converse trainers to constrain the look.
The new laws are an attempt to limit the amount of choice a woman has over her body by the state.
During the late 1920s, the capitalist system was constrained by a lack of consumer demand, which lead to overproduction.
Although an aesthetic and intellectual masterpiece, its constraint in its use of color count it among the least recognized paintings of the Renaissance.
Poverty, it has been said, is the parent of crime; the want of earthly good constrains men to have recourse to bad means in order to provide for themselves and their families.
The government attempted to constrain economic fluctuations by imposing price and wage controls.
But others, such as the Platonists, believed the Forms constrained freedom and so evolved a complex cosmology that ‘liberated' the soul by placing it beyond the sphere of the Earth, which contained the prison-world of the
Although Cyrus the Great was acclaimed by many as a legitimate king, his position was without precedent in the Median Empire so many of its old customs and conventions such as electing kings were abandoned by his decree and he became the first of the Persian line to
As for Eastern culture, it tends to have more of a collectivist mindset as opposed to the individualistic Western society.
Ageing is caused by the constrain on the human body due to external and internal stresses resulting in the deterioration of tissues.
And so the king wanted to constrain the nobles' power.
The king believed he was omnipotent and free to constraint his citizens lives, however, the Magna Carts ensured that this would be difficult.
It can be difficult to find the motivation to work hard when you feel constrained by an unrewarding job.
"The animal rights activists insisted that the laboratory couldn't constrain the dog to a cage for more than two weeks."
A mathematical rule best not taught to undergraduates, and which I shall not constrain you with here, states that if the radius of a sphere is increased by 50%, the volume and mass of the sphere increases by 100%
Their findings reinforced the belief that men had a natural tendency to dominate others and constrained only by external forces such as law and social pressure.
The information age has put constraints on governments' abilities to keep secrets.
The "vampire" is an undead demon that feeds off the blood of the living and thus can be constrained by a variety of things, ranging from religious symbols to simple sunlight.
The constitution of the United States of America constrained the powers of the government through elevated means such as the Bill of Rights.
Although it is a relatively attractive possibility, the theory that time simply 'constrains' us to perceive events linearly without any 'real' order has been criticised as incomplete by most physicists.
Theory has always tried to con strained by empirical methods of the natural sciences.
The contract the singer signed with the entertainment company constrained her artistic freedom.
The U.S. Constitution was an attempt to constrain the inevitable powers of government that were necessary to creating a stable nation.
At that time, there were natural constraints on Internet usage.
However, it is still the case that the instrument is used in order to constrain free speech rather than to protect it in most instances.
Friedrich Hayek believed that the constraints the government imposes on people should be kept to an absolute minimum.
History's earliest records show that Assyrians, Babylonians and Sumerians made tremendous advances in law, science and engineering centuries before the Greeks.
In the time of Galileo, the Catholic Church constrained the freedom of its scientists by forbidding them from theorizing outside the bounds of their religious doctrine.
Professor: The new translation constrains the poem into a rigid 4-beat line structure, rather than the free verse form which you originally wrote it in.
1. To force into a certain role, position, or action.
Religious texts need to be constrained by the reality of the world.
Professor: Ultimately, it was decided that the horrific nature of the incident would be too much for children to handle.
Due to advancements in ballistics technology, cannon during the renaissance era could now be made smaller yet still be just as effective, constraining the mobility of the vessel that transported them.
The stranglehold that the Galleanists had over Italian society at the time constrained any movement against them.
The best guest should be allowed to converse freely, unconstrained by the opinion of the masses.
The New Harmony communalist experiment collapsed largely because of material constraints
The large and complex systems that make modern technology work constrain the amount of control you can have over them.
The world is afflicted by an extreme shortage of food and other essentials, which will probably continue to constrain economic growth in the near future.
The terms of the treaty constrained Britain's actions within mainland Europe for the next three decades.
However, when it became apparent that the newly liberated states would not remain part of a centralized state, their relationship was constrained.
Cuba lost many of its valuable trained surgeons, and the profession was placed further into constraints.
Municipal water supply systems were designed to constrain the population in specific areas, making it harder for people to escape.
Your answer: The natural constraints on the growth of the city, such as its geographic location, made it grow at a slower rate.
The mayor intends to introduce new regulations that will constraints on the opening hours of pubs.
The technological constraints of building large seafaring vessels constrained the ability of early modern European nations to explore and colonize foreign lands.


#daunting

The prospect of addressing such a large audience in front of the media was extremely daunting for her.
The task of transporting the deceased over such a great distance was both tedious and daunting.
They were sent into battle at the Dardanelles without enough ships to support them should they be needed, a plan which was always doomed to failure and a command decision by Lord Kitchener and Winston Churchill that must have been made with a
The manufacturing of an entire human genome is a daunting task that has to be done with extreme precision.
I'm not a teacher and public speaking is a daunting task for me.
It was a daunting task, attempting to pull together the mineral and biological surveys of two separate planets, but we had the time and resources, so we went ahead with it.
Suggesting that evolution is true can be a daunting task as it implies that everything that we know, feel and hold dear is the result of random chance.
The prospect of having to address a large conference audience on a subject about which one knows absolutely nothing is quite daunting.
The process of creating a vaccine is a long, expensive and always daunting task.
Do you find this test questions daunting, or are they a breeze?
The professor's expectation that students would put forth great effort to try to solve the intellectual challenges he devises for them was certainly accurate in my case.
Howie's journey to the centre of the Earth was a daunting task, but he was prepared to embark on it for science.
I have a lot of respect for you, but I don't think I am ready to take the next step in our relationship -- I feel a bit intimidated and daunted by the responsibilities of being in such a committed relationship.
They questioned my decision to go ahead with the project despite potential conflicts of interest.
The university has a daunting list of subjects that need to be studied in order to graduate.
Driving on the left side of the road and the switch from kilometres to miles can be daunting for international travellers.
After the most devastating defeat of his career, Napoleon considered abandoning his military career and becoming an agronomist because he found the prospect of leading men in battle increasingly daunting.
The decision to pursue a master's degree is not an easy one and involves a lot of hard work and study, so the student needs to make sure that the endeavor will reward him or her with new knowledge, skills and opportunities.
His new book on the analysis of human heritage is a daunting 732 pages.
The task that lay ahead of them was a daunting one, but the government officials were confident that they were up to it.
However difficult it was for the Mongols to conquer China, it was an even bigger challenge to keep it under control. The Mongol conquests of the thirteenth century were arguably one of the most formidable military accomplishments in world history.
Examining his tax records, I see that paying the government this year will be a little daunting.
Relating to mental or physical fear or anxiety, it was a daunting task that he set out to accomplish.
Despite the fact that she did not find Isaac Newton's writing easy to understand, Melinda is not daunted by the idea of working on a dissertation about his contributions to physics.
He is receptive to ideas and new concepts but only if they are not too complex or daunting.
A steep learning curve in regards to the technology and a seemingly endless amount of legal jargon was quite daunting.
The task of creating a new justice system for the empire was a daunting one.
Faced with such a daunting task, Galen had second thoughts about his career in medicine.
He describes his foray into private practice as daunting because he had to learn more about computing than he ever thought possible.
Although his other achievements were many, Franklin's participation in the Constitutional Convention was perhaps his most daunting task.
The other time I found the climb up the mountain to be particularly daunting was when I had food poisoning
Seventh-century Ireland experienced an influx of foreign people and ideas, which resulted in the creation of impressive works of art such as the Book of Kells, but it also proved to be a daunting and challenging time for the Irish.
The thought of presenting a paper on the developments in biology before the Royal Society - probably the most eminent group of scientists in the world at that time - was a daunting prospect .
His new role as head of department was certainly a daunting one, but John embraced it.
Building the pyramids was a daunting task, but it had to be done—and done on time—for Khufu demanded it.
His face was badly burnt, and the scars gave him a permanently daunting appearance.
Working in a new field can be very daunting as it often involves learning huge amounts of new information about the subject.
The sixteenth-century British navy, renowned for its investigation and persecution of witches, at the time was considered one of the most daunting institutions in the entire country.
It was a daunting task, and Galton was reluctant to pursue it initially.
Responsible for a long and extremely boring document, the prospect of writing a summary of the entire report was daunting.
The learning required to become a medical doctor is daunting and time-consuming.
"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire" by Edward Gibbon is a well-written, witty and at time somewhat sarcastic work on the history and downfall of the Roman Empire.
His doctoral thesis was a daunting task, but he handled it professionally and completed it well within the time limit.
I don't think I'm ready for my presentation tomorrow for class, it seems really daunting and I haven't even started on the topic.
The professor selects the sentence:
The first public museum in America was opened in Philadelphia in 1786 and it was not until the late 19th century that public museums became more commonplace in America.
That session proved somewhat daunting for you, but you knew you would manage with your intelligence.
The prospect of filling the role of his predecessor, a man whom he considered to be one of the most knowledgeable and well-read people he had ever known, was daunting.
However, though the task which you have chosen is very daunting, I do not think that you will be afraid of the difficulties in your way; indeed, I think you will overcome them.
The towering, steep mountains of northern British Columbia are a daunting wilderness to most people.
Maintaining a huge, diverse empire stretching from Britain to Mesopotamia was a daunting task—one that was ultimately to prove too much for the Romans.
The task of organizing an expedition to Egypt was a daunting one and relied on Hurgron's knowledge of the area.
His mission was daunting. His goal was to educate tens of millions of Americans about the downfalls of a society founded upon class division.
The idea of studying a whole new language in addition to your current coursework is quite daunting to most students.
His life's work of
Writing a good English paper is a daunting task for many students.
The daunting remoteness of the Amazon rainforest meant that it was one of the last parts of the Western Hemisphere to be explored and colonized by humans.
For someone without formal training in medicine or biology the idea of becoming a doctor was somewhat daunting.
The prospect of addressing a crowd of thousands of people on a stage was daunting for him.
Famed for its dreary weather and poverty, the city was far from being the wealthiest city in England.
The problem of space debris is a daunting prospect for the international community
Her professional success does not make the prospect of asking her to apply for the position any less daunting for you.
The task of creating a modern Afghan state that is able to defend itself from foreign invaders as well as provide for the basic needs of its citizens is a daunting one that may take generations to accomplish.
Granted, it is a daunting task to attempt to create an accurate historical record of something that happened over twenty centuries ago – Ehrmann 1988
The task of sorting through and understanding all of the information unearthed during an archaeological excavation can be quite daunting.
Even in the twenty-first century, particle physics is still a daunting task as was proved by the Large Hadron Collider's inability to find the Higgs boson.
It's a very daunting task you have set yourself, but like the famous explorer David Livingstone you feel drawn towards it.
Overseeing a new complex scientific theory and predictions can be very daunting and overwhelming for the scientist.
These challenging assignments were among the most daunting tasks you have ever encountered.
Reforming the health-care system is a daunting
Catherine the Great is considered one of the most competent rulers in Russian history, her contributions as a reformer, while significant, have often been overshadowed by her dour personality.
The prospect of addressing a large audience at the London Theatre, on the other hand, was quite daunting.
"Parkinson's Law", named after C. Northcote Parkinson, is a term used to describe the exponential growth of management that often takes place in organizations.
Driving on the left side of the road, a daunting prospect for most American tourists, isn't illegal in England.
The task we have been given is a daunting one, but I'm confident that we can pull it off successfully if we all work hard.
The prospect of addressing such a large audience was somewhat daunting for her.
The task of designing and implementing a new computer network for the station is a daunting one.
He found the law a very daunting prospect. He knew it could take years before he was qualified to even argue in court and he wasn't sure if he would enjoy it even then.
The thought of speaking in front of a large crowd is a daunting prospect for anybody, even for those who love to talk.
Teaching medical students can be a daunting experience, but it is also one of the most rewarding.
The challenge of working to send people into space in a timely manner and bringing them back again unharmed is a daunting one.
The task of cleaning up the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico is a daunting one and will no doubt take several years.
I was expecting to find the C++ programming language too daunting when I learned it in college, but I found it quite easy once I got started.
Exploring North America was a major European focus for the next three centuries but was a daunting task, the reasons and motivations being purely mercantile.
The process of becoming a citizen can be a daunting and lengthy one, especially for immigrants to the United States.
The professor's research into the life of Nicias is exhaustive and extensive; it is a well-researched, well-detailed biography of Nicias that is certain to become the standard work and is the most definitive resource on Nic
The professor smiles and says it is not that word. He says the answer is really easy, but it will involve getting another question right.
The thought of spending endless hours trying to get your firm's new website to work properly is quite daunting.
The prospect of filling the huge void he would leave behind was a daunting task to us all.
Moving to a new city and starting college is a bit of a daunting prospect for any student.
Lecturing at Oxford as a young don, he found the academic life there daunting.


#deleterious

Academics have determined that insufficient sleep, especially when experienced regularly and over long periods of time can have deleterious effects on an individual's health and cognition.
In the past, technological change happened slowly enough that we could get used to new technologies or figure out ways of mitigating their more deleterious effects.
The commonly held belief that the leaders of the Islamic faith were solely to blame for the violent nature of the Crusades is a relatively modern idea and not accurate.
Research shows that genetically modified food can have a number of deleterious effects on the people who eat them.
In modern civilization, we are witnessing an apparent increase in the deleterious effects of city life.
Long-term alcohol abuse may have a number of physical, mental and social effects, any of which can be debilitating or even deadly.
Although his books are well-written and thought-out, his ideas have had a deleterious effect on modern football journalism.
Cocaine, especially when taken intravenously leads to a number of serious and even life-threatening deleterious effects.
Methamphetamine is known to cause severe health issues, both physical and mental, and in some cases causes irreversible degenerative brain damage.
Too much salt in your diet can have a deleterious effect on your health.
Most of these concerns relate to the possible deleterious effects of the proposed highway in question.
Leading to the buildup of deleterious products in the mitochondria membrane, this ultimately leads to unhealthy and inefficient muscle contraction.
Academically Vergil's poem "Eclogues" had no deleterious effects on the Latin language.
Opium's deleterious effects on the human body include hormonal changes, cognitive impairment and solvable gastrointestinal problems.
Second-hand smoke has been proven to have detrimental effects on people in its vicinity.
The destruction of the forests is potentially the most serious problem facing our society.
Tobacco smoking is definitely harmful to human beings, and is designated as one of the causes of deleterious effects on human health.
Smoking has been known to have a deleterious effect on our bodies.
The deleterious effects of coal mining on the environment have been well-documented.
The popular television show "Jerry" romanticizes this belief, and the antics of the title character are portrayed as being positive and even beneficial to society, rather thanthe detrimental influence that it is.
Intense industrialization often leads to deleterious effects on the environment.
Some argue that the indiscriminate use of immunization shots for children may have a deleterious effect on their health.
The common misconception that radiation from mobile phones is deleterious to one's health is still popular with many people.
Exposure to environmental tobacco smoke has been shown to have deleterious effects on the cardiovascular system.
Over-fishing can lead to the destruction of habitats and the spread of invasive species which can have a deleterious effect on marine life.
Exposure to the herbicide can have serious deleterious effects on rats, but since it doesn't bio-accumulate, scientists aren't especially worried about the negative effects on animals higher up the food chain.
Some scholars even believe that small pox was actually present in the Americas for centuries before the arrival of Europeans, but that its effects were kept in check by Native Americans themselves developing immunity to the disease over many generations.
Many white collar workers experience deleterious health effects as a result of spending too much time sitting.
The false teachings of Gnosticism in the early Christian church had a profound and deleterious effect on its development.
Frequent consumption of fast food has a deleterious effect on your health.
Research of this kind generally serves to warn of potential dangers of new technology rather than provide a balanced, objective overview of its advantages and disadvantages, because the focus is so often on the negative aspects of a subject.
The deleterious effects of the rising damp in your basement are spilling over into the walls of your house, causing extensive damage.
Also, the increase in usage of digital media has resulted in a decrease in reading printed material, which could result in deleterious effects on literacy rates.
Acetaminophen is a popular pain reliever because it has few side effects and is not believed to have any serious adverse or deleterious effects on the liver.
Common side effects of the drug include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and death, which can be especially deleterious to children.
Lead paint is a substance that has been proven to be, over a long period of time, deleterious to the cognitive development of children.
Secondhand smoke has been shown to have adverse health effects on children, including respiratory infections, ear problems, and an increased risk of asthma.
Although hard physical labour is known to reduce the lifespan of humans, most of these deleterious effects have been found to arise from social factors rather than the physical effort involved.
The deleterious effects of concentrated power on individuals is a topic that has been theorised upon by countless philosophers and thinkers.
He believes that the negative reviews that his last four books have received are part of a conspiracy by a secret organization to destroy his credibility as a fantasy writer. He believes this because the organization is also responsible for global warming.
The deleterious effects of the accident stayed with Matt for the rest of his life.
The belief in witchcraft often led to the mentally ill being blamed for natural disasters and other deleterious events in the pre-Newtonian world.
The pre-Christian belief that the dead continued to exist in an identical form to their living selves was therefore a fallacy as the dead were believed to have no individuality and no conscious existence.
College rankings are supposed to help students by identifying which colleges will best help them to reach their goals. However, the U.S.
Many toxic by-products are created during palace, and these can have deleterious effects on the population as a whole.
Their isolation means their society has remained a safe, clean place with no poverty or crime and no deleterious effects on the environment.
Air pollution is associated with a range of health problems: the chemical components lead to ailments like lung cancer, asthma and chest pains; and the rise in air temperature, known as the heat island effect, can be deleterious to health.
The numerous attempts throughout the 1950s to prove that polio vaccine has deleterious effects had a negative impact on the ability of doctors and public health officials to persuade people of the benefits of vaccination.
Long-term alcohol consumption can have both beneficial and deleterious effects on health.
Lead paint, excessive smoke and other deleterious stimuli can cause irreparable neural damage in infants.
The deleterious effects of nuclear fallout were first studied after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in World War II.
The deleterious effects of these sleeping tablets have been well-documented.
Passive smoking is thought to have deleterious effects on the health of non-smokers.
The deleterious effects of global warming are well known: rising sea levels, the disappearance of valuable arable land, etc.
Long-term exposure to the deleterious effects of air pollution is linked to increased risk of several respiratory diseases in children and adults.
Adoption of the policy had a deleterious effect on sales, and the company soon had to cut back on staff.
The deleterious effects of this new practice included an increased amount of time spent at work and less time for family, creating a vicious cycle that lead to several negative social consequences.
Car exhausts primarily contain toxic chemicals that can have a damaging effect on the environment.
The deleterious effects of the pollution on human and animal life were readily apparent.
Exposure to produce has been linked with many deleterious effects on health, such as birth defects and cancer.
Second-hand smoke is detrimental to both your health and your children's, leading to a decrease in quality of life.
Due to the deleterious effects of the toxic material, several species of fish have been rendered extinct, and other species are on the verge of extinction.
Our company is trying to have the chemical eliminated from all food products produced and sold in the U.S. as it could be deleterious to our health.
The deleterious side effects of the new drug were not immediately obvious.
The one downside of this new technology is that you have to be online at all times for it to work, which could be deleterious to your safety.
In the meantime, the rest of your team loaded the other cannons with a slightly weaker grade of gunpowder intended to harass rather than destroy.
Benzene is a colourless and highly Refractive Liquid that is a toxic and has a sweet smell.
Some say the factory's polluted production is having a deleterious effect on the local area.
Second-hand smoke has been proven to have a negative effect on people's health, and can cause toxic levels of nicotine to build up in the body, which could be considered poisonous.
The flaw in his argument was its assumption that something must be wrong if it is new; however, in human history the new has more often than not been beneficial.
Albrecht Dürer was a 16th-century German artist and is considered to be the foremost northern European artist of his era.
Repeated motions such as typing can cause harmful stresses on the body such as tendonitis or Carpal tunnel syndrome, which are known as repetitive strain injuries (RSI).
Aflatoxin is the most pernicious mycotoxin; it is also the most deleterious to human health.
It has been suggested by some academics that the constant threat of invasion had a deleterious effect on British politics and society in general.
Long-term exposure to noise at certain levels has been shown to have potentially deleterious effects on auditory processing.
The deforestation of certain parts of the planet could have deleterious effects on the environment.
Long-term exposure to ionizing radiation is known to have serious deleterious effects on living tissue.
The deleterious effects of unemployment on mental and physical health are well known.
While the introduction of a new class of painkillers has made medication more efficient than ever, the deleterious effects on the liver mean that patients are forced to undergo weekly blood tests.
The common belief that smoking tobacco has deleterious effects on health is supported by extensive scientific evidence.
The deleterious effects of the pollution caused by the factory have been disputed by management, who claim that closing it down would lead to massive job losses and a harmful increase in unemployment.
Although the dense jungles provide a suitable habitat for numerous species, they are also one of the reasons the area is suffering from a serious water shortage, and deforestation; both of which have a deleterious effect on the environment.
Long-term exposure to the smoke of the Jackal Weed has been proven to be deleterious to human health.
Exposure to vinyl chloride, a common ingredient in PVC, is known to cause liver damage as well as a host of other more deleterious effects.
Outdoor sports and physical exercise fostered camaraderie in the camps which helped prevent rebellions and build troop morale, whereas naval vessels were no place for ladies, whose presence was considered deleterious to naval discipline.
There are also less deleterious effects brought about by changes in coloration. Many animals are able to change their camouflage with the seasons, allowing them to effectively hide from prey or predators.
Smoking has not been proven to have any direct deleterious health effects on the smoker.
The deleterious effects and damage it can cause makes it dangerous to even develop, much less use in any meaningful way.
The deleterious effects of the drug include shortness of breath and lack of oxygen to the brain, leading to a state of unconsciousness.
Genetics research has led to numerous discoveries, many of them deleterious to humans.
The deleterious effects of factory jobs on the health and well being of workers were poorly understood by factory owners, who saw them solely as a means to increase their profits.
The deleterious effects of serious and serial lying is a common theme in many films,
In the past, I've tried to avoid terms with multiple syllables, so that we can all keep up.
Some experts believe the new regulations on mining will have a deleterious effect on certain parts of the economy.
The use of tobacco in any form is deleterious to your health and thus the government has banned it.
Many of the low quality loans taken during the subprime mortgage crisis were considered to have a deleterious effect on the economy post-2008, as they led to a higher rate of foreclosure than had been expected


#diffidence

However, her diffidence ended when she got on stage—she loved to perform and always made the audience laugh.
This professor has none of the diffidence that you or I might feel in putting ourselves forward.
His diffidence to the theory was based purely on its scientific inaccuracies and lack of evidence.
Long celebrated as a paragon of virtue and self-confidence, the prince's diffidence was surprising.
Her diffidence and apparent apathy had surprised everyone, as she had always been the most charismatic and outspoken of all the candidates.
However courageous the actions of those who fought, it was Cook's diffidence that ensured the success of the first voyage.
She had so much potential, but her diffidence held her back.
Mark wrote his gospel under the belief that the disciples had neglected to record all of Jesus' deeds and teachings, which he felt compelled to remedy.
Although well-respected during his lifetime, it was not until after his death that Saint Thomas Aquinas became the patron saint of Catholic schools and students, and a magnificent basilica was erected in his name.
It is because of her diffidence that many people do not realize the extent of her generosity.
Despite his diffidence and dislike of public speaking, he launched a successful career in law and politics.
She was known for her diffidence, or hesitancy, on the marital question when she was proposed to by Lord Frederick Campbell.
Her diffidence, or shyness, extends beyond her appearance to her behavior.
The opening of China to the global market has led to a huge increase in trade, and this burgeoning business relationship has encouraged businesses from all over the world to travel to China.
However, sometimes I think their excessive diffidence and humility is nothing more than a show for the galleries.
Lechita's diffidence proved to be the more successful approach, as she did not get into any trouble.
Mr. Smith's diffidence in speaking to the media would be endearing were he not correct about the dangers ahead.
The reason why she agreed to join the project was to overcome her diffidence towards public speaking.
His diffidence towards accepting this great honour is understandable.
Nero had inherited a weak and dying Empire, and his own lack of concern and diffidence towards governing allowed the Roman Empire to descend into anarchy.
However, the fifty-year-old Macartney also suffered from ill health as a result of his seafaring life and he was constrained by a natural diffidence that also made him apprehensive about facing a man who had already performed incredible feats of
Hailing from one of the most influential families in American politics, he is known for his diffidence towards life in general and politics in particular.
Although his ideas were innovative and far-reaching, Charles Darwin's diffidence prevented him from making radical suggestions concerning the natural sciences.
Her diffidence in class prevents her from answering most questions; you wish she would participate more.
Though she practiced a great deal of diffidence, Cynthia ultimately faced much adversity.
While he was known for his thoughtfulness and diffidence, he was also famous for the large library he built.
While the rest of her famil
While some looked at the ruins with awe, others with fear, and still more with disgust and diffidence, Bianca's eyes sparkled with pleasure.
He has always been a man of diffidence and has never engaged in something like this before, but he is willing to help us.
One of the reasons for his success in uniting Germany was Bismarck's diffidence towards the populace and his reluctance to impose Bavarian rule on other German states.
Epicurus exhibited diffidence in his youth, going as far as to withhold his ideas from publication.
Even though Lillith was a woman of great diffidence, she did not hesitate to speak her mind.
Alison's diffidence, or shyness, was perceived as arrogance by her classmates.
However, in the end, he followed his own sense of duty and conscience, despite his diffidence, and died for his beliefs.
Although a natural introvert with a diffidence to authority figures, David had a burning ambition to become a doctor.
"We are not indefinitely bound to the decisions of previous generations or ancient authorities if their decisions do not agree with reason or experience, or if they contain opinions and customs devoid of all authority or foundation.
In her autobiography, she described her diffidence upon being accepted into the revolutionary crowd: "I was struck dumb.…my want of confidence betrayed itself in my face and manner".
She filled her writing with elaborate descriptions and florid metaphors, but in person she had the diffidence of a conservative accountant.
He was a quiet and diffident man, but his enormous wealth has made him undeniably powerful.
His diffidence with regard to this matter certainly contrasts to his usual nature as he has always been very supportive of your research.
Here was a man of great courage that you witnessed, being so meek and free from any kind of diffidence.
He is known for his diffidence, and his quiet nature meant he never actively sought leadership roles within the department.
When they were in an elevator together, she was struck by his diffidence.
His diffidence in interviews and his awkward public speaking are commonly thought to be the result of social anxiety disorder, a condition he developed after the failure of his marriage.
Her diffidence was born of inexperience, but also a certain dignity.
Her diffidence, or shyness, is especially apparent when you meet her.
He showed no diffidence at all in telling me that he disagreed with my decisions as Director.
It wasn't George's diffidence that caused him to defer entering the book business, however; it was his wife's lack of consent.
He was not a man of great talent, but rather one of diffidence and restraint.
However, his diffidence was overcome when he visited London in 1840 and was lionised by the city.
As a teacher, John never had much self- confidence yet his diffidence was charming.
While he did not have any children, my grandfather was not lacking in familial love. Instead, he was reserved and diffident, something which caused him professional problems as an academic.
This shyness was unusual for someone of his intelligence and accomplishment but can be explained by two things: his strong religious feelings that caused him extreme diffidence in the presence of more educated and experienced scholars, and his simple and hard childhood with little education
His diffidence was normal for someone in his position at the time, and was certainly not a hindrance to his success.
He was known for his diffidence and unwillingness to become directly involved in politics.
Despite her diffidence, and shyness around large groups of people, she was a fearsome warrior when she had to be.
Brenda had great diffidence about raising her hand and speaking in class, but once she did it she found it much easier than she thought.
A shy and diffident young man, he nonetheless had led his men with distinction in battle.
Although he has great ability and intellect, he is still handicapped by a certain diffidence in his personality that holds him back.
His diffidence was perceived as arrogance by his opponents which made him even more popular among the masses.
He wanted to go into space exploration, but it was not his diffidence that stayed him: he simply could not afford the high tuition to the exclusive schools that trained for such a job.
Her diffidence and constantly troubling health did not prevent her from helping the revolutionary cause in secret.
He had the diffidence of a truly great man.
I was fascinated by his diffidence and suggested going over the past papers so that he could at least improve his format, but he merely shook his head.
While Rita was intelligent, her diffidence towards confrontations made her timid in the office.
He overcame his extreme diffidence and became a forceful personality.
There is, too, a civility and diffidence in his address;
He had a reticent, introspective and diffident personality.
The Prim Minister waved to the crowd, which roared its approval. Unaccustomed to such displays of popularity, he seemed almost diffident.
By his own admission, the minister was afflicted with a crippling diffidence in the face of personal attacks on opponents.
His diffidence to engage in any foreign adventures was one of the reasons why he was so popular among Romans.
He was a shy and diffident man who lacked the charisma of leadership qualities of his older brother.
As a young professor, Huygens was diffident about his mathematics teaching abilities and he became friends with René Descartes.
It was not surprising that a man of his diffidence should have found it difficult to come to terms with the confident and dominating Monica.
