

#recapitulate

Professor: In an attempt to prove that a "revolution"
The main emphasis in the film is on a series of flashbacks that recapitulate major scenes from the Thompson killings.
In "Chicago1", Mike Royko describes the city as a place that has been able to "recapitulate" all of American history.
The idea that the history of life, from the formation of the planet to the appearance of humans, can be divided into a series of eras that recapitulate evolutionary steps is not new.
Each class is an example: In history class you learned about past events; in government class you discussed present politics; in philosophy class you discussed present ideas.
In his book On the Origin of Species, Charles Darwin argued that modern animals existed due to a process he called natural selection.
In the 19th century, it was believed that a human fetus recapitulated the whole evolutionary history of mammals.
Professor: Although the conflict had its origins in World War I, it was effectively a stand-alone conflict that lasted from 1935 to 1945. In fact, some historians have referred to it as the Second Thirty Years' War.
The "Amoeba's Dining Room" depicts a rectangle with rounded corners, surrounded along one side by seven smaller, irregularly shaped dining rooms.
It is possible, as Wollstonecraft once suggested, that women have historically been educated to fulfill the role of subordinate and to seek protection from men in a recapitulation of the fact that they were once protected by, and subordinate to,
The first half of the nineteenth century witnessed a return to many features of the society of the Middle Ages, and in some ways an improvement upon them.
For the first few weeks, the bird's life is nothing but fending for itself, and it can safely be said that, during this time, it recapitulates the development of its remote ancestors.
The most important concept in the creation of the Constitution is that of the separation of powers, and this concept is summed up in the phrase "checks and balances."
It has long been believed that the human brain developed in such a way that the newer parts of our brain are more advanced than the older parts, with the newer parts being found in more recently evolved species, and the older parts being found in the
The philosopher Hegel believed that an individual in order to develop fully had to go through a series of stages, or moments. The first stage was the moment of dependency, which in essence denotes childhood.
Some Christian theologians held, on the other hand, that when God created the universe He programmed it like a giant computer to run according to fixed unchangeable laws: the theory of determinism, which means that we all simply recapitulate
We are not going to recapitulate the entire genealogy of English liberty.
But the most striking thing about sea squirts isn't their transformation from one thing to another. It's the fact that they completely recapitulate the evolutionary process in the course of a few days or weeks.
The theory of recapitulation states that individual development, the process by which a child grows into an adult, parallels the evolutionary development of the human species itself.
Darwin believed that an individual organism's embryological development, or "ontogeny," recapitulated its species' evolutionary development, or "phylogeny." The idea was discarded when it became clear that this was not always true.
Professor: In the 1850s, however, scholars including Hermann Schaaffhausen and George Busk discovered that larger, more "advanced" bones were found in geological strata above smaller ones.
The notochord, pharyngeal/gill slits, and the ability to regenerate are all characteristics that the human embryo recapitulates from its fish ancestor.
Although originally intended to kill, the dagger merely succeeded in inflicting a non-fatal injury which, as it turned out, recapitulated the course of Reynolds' entire life.
The main factors that led to the collapse of the Roman Empire can be summed up as: high military expenditure, an increasing proportion of the population becoming barbarian, and a failure to replace depreciated currency.
As the twentieth century progresses, people begin
Without understanding it, he was recapitulating the whole history of Biology, from Aristotle to Haeckel.
Natasha opened her Latin book to the section that her tutor had sign and started recapitulating the vocabulary she knew.
Professor:In the 1840s, the German biologist Ernst Haeckel claimed that "ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny",
which means that an individual organism's development, or
The report will begin by recapitulating the major events since 1978, when American diplomats were last taken hostage in Iran.
"The major stages in the development of vertebrates from fish to mammals are summarized by Ernst Haeckel in his famous phrase "regression, abortion, duplication and progression.
The normal European diet at this time was mostly based on bread, as bread was moderately nutritious and easy to get.
But the major revolutions have been accommodated into the dominant ideology, and therefore recapitulate its basic assumptions.
recapitulate the most important points of an argument or theory
We can therefore say that it is wrong to interpret the norms of human freedom as a justification for imposing on other cultures our own desires and dreams of emancipation.
The professor stands up and starts to gather his notes, ready to leave the lecture room.
The events entailed in the play recapitulate the French War of Religion and King Henry's attempt to introduce Gallicanism in France, which was the idea that the king had considerable rights within the state, and ruled by divine right.
"The idea that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny," he says, "is a complete fallacy."
In the beginning of the movie, his mother attempts to 'recapitulate' for Tom the story of the Christian God, as told in the Old Testament.
The Russian Revolution of 1905 was also a dress rehearsal for the even more cataclysmic events of 1917, so in a sense the revolution of 1905 was like a baby version of the greater conflict to come, and hence it can be said to have
A very small number of the boxes we receive at the hospital contain pharmaceuticals, and these are kept in a locked cupboard in the pharmacy.
Darwin's view of the evolutionary process, in which new species developed from earlier ones through a series of small changes over a long period of time, was known as "darwinism" or "natural selection".
Professor: By 1850, the process of industrialization had in fact
rapidly changed the social order: only 40 years earlier slaves without any rights had existed.
The course is primarily intended to give you practice in reading, translating and understanding textual materials by presenting a variety of them to you
The main points of Darwin's theory of evolution are firstly that human beings and all the animal and plant life on earth are all descended from a common ancestor, secondly that this process of evolution has been driven by a process of natural selection, third
But his desire, like that of so many writers and artists, was to change the world, not simply to reflect it; and for this he would need a larger stage than Vienna.
They recapitulated the evolutionary sequences as seen in the fossils; fish evolved into amphibians, amphibians evolved into reptiles, and reptiles evolved into mammals.
The Etruscan civilization was a short-lived one (c. 800 BC to c. 300 BC), but its influence on later cultures such as the Romans was great.
In essence the sonata form recapitulates the inherited structure of the rondo with its three or four sections, and with a definite beginning and end
Professor: In 1988 German researchers claimed that human embryos display segments that reflect fish-like, reptilian and then mammalian traits. This so called "recapitulation theory"
Fredrick Engels, the intellectual partner of Karl Marx, believed that human development went through stages similar to the growth of an individual embryo.
Professor: The industrial revolution in Britain can be seen to have followed a similar course as the industrial revolutions in other countries. It was preceded by a "manufacturing revolution" during the second half of the eighteenth century.
The process of birth itself recapitulates the entire history of the ancient ancestors' migration from the seas to the land to the point where life is now concentrated in a watery liquid.
Embryologists had long believed that the phase recapitulates evolution: that is, what happens during development in a chick embryo (for example, the formation of gill slits) are garuanteed to occur, in reverse order,
Professor: Inclusive fitness theory has been seen as 'recapitulating' the ideas of social Darwinism, which was very influential in late 19th-century and early 20th-century Britain.
In William's view, evolution also recapitulates social progress.
The French Revolution has been seen as a way of the aristocracy to regain power, just as feudalism returned in a new form after the fall of Rome.
For his two year college biology class, Nick decided to make the human nervous system and ended up making a big blob made out of agar jelly.
Furthermore, they believed that this process was not unique and final but would continue to repeat itself until the end of mankind itself; in other words, the current period recapitulated what occurred in all previous such periods, each of which had led to
"Homo habilis" was one of the earliest human ancestors to be found, as its fossil was discovered in 1960 and it lived in Africa about two million years ago.
In summer, he constantly looks out of the windows and at his watch, implying an intense dislike of the classes, which he recapitulates in the autumn.
The film had a powerful effect on the young child, who found himself immersed in a world of dreams and nightmares which he could not differentiate from reality, which in turn led him to be a young man who was unwilling to leave the world of dreams
The inner nose is made up mostly of a hard, bony plate and some soft membranes. It divides into two nostrils that lead to the throat.
Professor: He concludes that the new weapons of mass destruction will, if anything, only cause politicians to shy even further away from conflict, since there will be even fewer winners in all-out war than there were in the past.
The rationalists believed that the primary function of sleep was to foster the body's restoration, in other words, that sleep was essentially "reparative."
The first civilization, according to the sociologist, undergoes what he calls the demographic-structural phase. In this phase, the population of the society increases rapidly despite intensive birth control regulations.
The gist of recapitulation theory was that a fetus repeated the entire evolution of mammals, then of vertebrates, then of backboned animals and then of invertebrates.
"The fundamental basis of prehistoric research is to make a detailed survey of one location, then summarize and systemize all the information thus obtained, and finally apply the results to similar sites"
We will begin by recapitulating some of the ideas that we've explored already.
"Renaissance" literally means "rebirth," and this is an accurate description of the 15th-century European cultural movement known as the Renaissance.
The university has been successful in recapitulating the social hierarchy found in medieval times.
The question remains whether the law will actually be able to help them capitualte the gang or if the gang will be able to recapitulate the violence that brought it into existence in the first place.
The French Revolution is a classic example of the idea that revolutions tend to go through similar phases, from an initial reforming phase to a violent and radical one in which the previous leaders are overthrown, to a final stage in which the new order is
Professor: The human body can now be seen to recapitulate, or repeat, many of the stages of our remote ancestors.
Professor: The first Vertebrates were fish that could crawl out of the water onto the land or that had some other advantage allowing them to avoid being entirely eliminated by their competitors.
The German philosopher Hegel believed that the true meaning of history was that it always repeated itself in long cyclical patterns, called "dialectic(s)".
The theory of recapitulation is one which proposes that the embryological development of an organism repeats its evolutionary history.
For Goethe, the metamorphosis of plants
The Peasants' Revolt of 1381 was a protest against the high taxes levied by England's strained government to pay for the ongoing Hundred Years War with France.
Bourgeois revolutions, according to the Marxist view, can be best defined as mass movements with the ultimate goal of changing the system of rule.
The theory of recapitulation, which was very influential at the start of the century, claimed that each stage an embryo goes through resembles some earlier stage in the evolution of its species.
Jean-Baptiste Lamarck used his theory of environmental influence to explain a wide range of phenomena.
The animal does not represent a 'missing link' so much as an evolutionary side road, a fork in the path taken by our ancestors millions of years ago.
The third phase of a heavy-water rocket carries the bomb all the way to the target, where it detonates at what is optimally fifty to eighty kilometers above the surface.
But a few decades later, it became clear that vertebrates have a very different embryological development; they don't recapitulate the evolutionary origins of the species
In the 16th century, many Europeans began to establish colonies in the New World. The Native Americans that already lived there were unwilling to cede their territory, and so conflicts inevitably arose.
In other words, the development in mammals from the early stages of embryo, through the fetal stage to birth and childhood, is very similar.
Professor: The Scottish Enlightenment figure David Hume stated that the purpose of history was to provide an argument against the fallacies of religion.
The magical world also experienced a fast industrial revolution in the early years of the 19th century, and although magic had been accepted as a "science" for a long time, this brought with it the notion of machines, factories, etc.
The sauropod theory of evolution, also known as "sauronomics," holds that the reptilian brainstem is replaced by a neural computer that takes over many of the functions of the brain.
He claimed that human life passed through the state in which it finds itself today, only once before, many thousands of years ago. This theory of recapitulation was used by Haeckel to link man's existence to the entire cosmos.
The British industrial working class is often said to have recapitulated the class struggles and conflicts of the French ancien regime during the 18th century, a period when France was known as the 'Daddy' of radical democracy.
Professor: The idea that human development "recapitulates" the steps of our evolution, as first proposed by a man who would later become one of Darwin's mentors, was debunked long ago.
As they leave the store, Nick quotes from Macbeth, "If money cures grief, then your money cures it instantly."
The argument that Wagner's operas repeatedly "recapitulate"
An argument can be made that it its essence, the Confederacy was a reactionary attempt by wealthy plantation owners to turn back the clock to an earlier era when cotton and slaves were king, much like during the period of the Confederacy in America.
Many of Charles Darwin's ideas and the ideas of his predecessors are recapitulated in the second half of the book.
The recapitulation theory claimed that different stages of an individual's development (such as the gill slits of a human embryo) corresponded to the adult form of specific ancestors; so, a human embryo with gill slits


#rectify

The situation has been gradually worsening, and the United Nations does not seem to be in a position to rectify the problem.
He said that the US will have to make reparations and rectify their wrongdoings in the Middle East.
To rectify this situation, the Romans developed a new system of law.
The Danish government has refused to rectify the perceived injustice by claiming all Greenlandic babies and granting them Danish citizenship.
The problem is, you don't have enough money to buy it even at the sale price, so you look around for things to sell.
However, this would not be an act of war, since you are rectifying the situation.
It took the government another decade to finally rectify this human rights violation.
The biggest problem with the nation's defense industry is that it has sometimes fallen prey to special interest groups who wish to rectify their own financial situations.
The exact nature of the chronovision's reception is still under investigation, and at the moment our research fundings are focused on how to rectify the situation by reaching the required time, yet we cannot disclose further information about it at this point
The government has made some efforts to rectify this in recent years with programs encouraging children to read.
The three autopsies did little to rectify the situation as there was no indication of violent death.
After the success of using DNA in the O.J. Simpson trial, some legal experts hoped crime labs across the country would suddenly improve and that many innocent people would be set free.
Although the project was designed to rectify the damage done, some people argued that it would do more harm than good.
The problem with the policy was that it could not be effectively implemented. No amount of political revolution could rectify this fundamental error.
Some workers had their wages docked if they were in the hospital for more than a few days, so they tried to leave after a day or two, even if they weren't fully recovered.
The government had to rectify this situation by increasing spending to create jobs.
The best way to rectify this is to ensure that a wide variety of news and views are available through the Internet.
With the aid of nannies and tutors, the young prince was able to rectify his lack of formal education.
There are standard guidelines for teachers in all sorts of situations, but in the end it's up to you to make the final decision on how to deal with your pupils.
They had to rectify their mistakes by placing restrictions on the movement of people from the affected areas.
An institution is attempting to rectify this situation by stockpiling a large amount of data on human illnesses, genetic and otherwise.
Children are beginning to fail in their ability to mentally "rectify", or mentally rotate objects, from one angle to a rest.
The reason why the cabinet decided to enact the policy of containment again was to rectify the situation which had become messy.
The first task of the National Assembly was to attempt to rectify the internal state of France.
The professors occasionally allowed us to take home tests which we could work on and turn in the next day, but these were relatively rare and we all hoped that we wouldn't need one, as they couldn't rectify any genuine learning.
The king immediately wanted to remedy his mistake, but it was too late.
It was only in the second half of the twentieth century that most African nations abandoned their colonial currencies for their own, independent currencies.
But some accidents cannot be rectified, and such losses and mistakes are to be learned from and taken as lessons.
Some alarmist scientists predicted that the world would end in the year 2000 due to computers correcting their date settings. But, of course, the world didn't end then or now.
The new law is supposed to prevent unscrupulous employers from exploiting illegal immigrants, and to a limited extent it may achieve this; but it does not rectify the major problem, which is that people are dying in the desert while attempting to enter the
"The principle behind the function of a computer is simple: it provides a framework for translating human instructions into actions."
The European Union is a group of 27 democracies who have decided to unite and try to rectify some of the mistakes of history by sharing resources and sovereignty.
You couldn't afford to rectify the situation, so you just had to hope for the best.
However, some states like Massachusetts already had policies in places that would eventually lead to the rectification of their mistakes with how they treated witches.
His doctor said, "Efforts to truly rectify each and every harmful habit most certainly would be of some benefit to you."
All the countries that had previously industrialized, such as Britain and France, passed laws to rectify the disparity between workers' wages and the price of bread.
It is increasingly difficult to rectify the situation because of the impenetrable bureaucratic jungle into which one has to venture in search of a solution.
The fact that the democracy movement spread through Africa, the Middle East and parts of Southeast Asia during the early twentieth century was due to a combination of events and people who rectified the mistakes of the past.
He could have a robotic arm grafted onto his torso to replace the arm he lost in the industrial accident; this would rectify his disability.
In the process of rectifying all these arrangements, the need for greater middle management officials was identified
I have to go now. Please give my thanks to the dean for this enjoyable evening. If you'll excuse me, I have to go find a way to try and rectify some of the problems with my experiments.
Saddam's violent response to the Shias and Kurds in northern Iraq indicated that he would not permit any rival sources of authority to remain in the country, and that efforts to 'rectify' the wrongs of Saddam's regime would have
The sooner we can rectify this injustice the better.
The "necessary and proper" clause is a sentence within Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution. It has been called the "elastic clause" and is very important to the interpretation of the meaning of the Constitution.
The minister said he would have to wait for the report until he could rectify the misunderstanding.
Otto's success in rectifying the problem gained him much respect and some new responsibilities.
While the visiting scholar was still in Beijing, Professor Li asked his daughter to help him buy some provisions as a way of rectifying his behavior towards her.
AIDS could possibly be developed into a weapon and used on an enemy, so it can be seen that the terrorist usage of AIDS is a dangerous, but preve
Fortunately, she agreed to help me rectify the problem.
First he covered his mistakes and then, when he had the chance, he re-published the more correct translation in a new edition, in order to rectify his previous mistakes.
The current education system has failed to rectify this problem, due to the wide range of intelligence levels in students.
They decided to send colonists, but not intervene in any other way, leaving it to the citizens of Flynd to rectify the mess they had created themselves.
But our problem is that we've had to compromise on the issue of what to do when a baby is potentially mentally retarded, but there's no physical evidence of that.
Ghislaine hopes that the bank will refund the lost money and attempt to rectify its mistake.
We need to rectify this situation without delay.
Traditionally in the Middle Ages, many priests were required by their religious order to sing a series of constant masses, which were usually for someone who had recently died.
The government was unable to rectify the problem before the next election.
But Mason's assessment of Franklin's life in general, though enthusiastic and even affectionate, is not uncritical; he believes that Franklin's attempts to rectify the spelling of English words as a young man were silly and worthless.
The opening of the Mississippi River was supposed to bring prosperity to New Orleans, but as it turned out it merely brought more people to a town that already had sanitation problems and couldn't really handle an increase in population.
However, recent governments have made great efforts to rectify the lack of infrastructure in the state.
The strange thing, from a historical perspective, is that most leaders responded to the impetuousness of fascism by trying to re-create the failed policies that had helped breed fascism in the first place, thus merely serving to further radicalize an
Sadly, the land reforms of 1950s were too little too late, and the government did not have the ability to rectify these changes.
Thankfully, with a few cosmetic changes the palace can at least be used to rectify some of the damage done to the royal family's reputation.
The failure of the domestic car industry to rectify its failings and make better cars doomed it to closure.
This philosophy is mainly concerned with making things better for future generations.
The actual amount of fluid in a container able to be determined by measuring the acceleration of its contents, can be used to calculate its total contents.
During his term as the US president, George W. Bush passed an act that rectified some of the excesses of the US Patriot act.
Some economists believe the recession could be rectified by lowering interest rates while others think it is too late and that the government should step in to spend on infrastructure or cut taxes.
The machine uses a process called rectification, which involves adding new DNA to the patient's cells.
Even where trade disputes were solved through negotiation, if this failed the two parties would fight until dominance was established; this is what the Japanese call 'rectifying' an issue.
The government's attempts to rectify the situation have proved completely ineffective.
They must rectify this mistake immediately.
They foist this inherent weakness off on other people.
He was also aware that the war with Iraq would be hugely expensive and might end in military disaster; but he felt such a conflict was necessary to rectify the situation.
Professor: You want to make more than just a minor improvement in your life.
The new medication, which can be taken daily or as needed, will help treat symptoms of excessive sweating that affect millions of Americans and don't respond to normal treatments such as botox or prescription antiperspirants.
On the other hand, if the law does not rectify the injustice, there is a violation of basic human rights.
He told police that after the victim fell unconscious he attempted to correct the situation by putting the body in his bed and pretending he was asleep if anyone visited his house.
The British strategy was to allow the two weakened sides to expend all their energy fighting each other, and then at some point to intervene decisively on one side or the other to dictate the outcome, correct or rectify the situation as the British wished.
Although he succeeded in rectifying some of the problems that had been plaguing the company, he was unsuccessful in his attempts to improve the firm's reputation.
The judge decided that it would be better to rectify this situation than to stick to the letter of the law.
The consequences of the French Revolution are still being felt today.
The government did little to rectify this situation until the early 1990s.
The first step to rectifying a problem is admitting there is one.
‘The continuing impact of the New Deal on American's lives can still be seen in today's policies, as well as in government actions, such as that of Franklin D.
The difficulty of assessing individuals' roles in the Holocaust and of rectifying the exact balance of guilt is a complex and painful problem for both Jewish historians and German politicians alike.
The main aim of the New Deal was to rectify the effects of the Great Depression.
The historian's job is to take the written records, or the historical documents, and try to rectify, or correct, them by looking at other types of evidence.


#refute

Compton had earlier refuted some rival theories, such as one that electrons moved in simple circular paths.
In 1697, Newton published a "General Scholium" as an appendix to his "Opticks", in which he proposed a heterodox explanation of the diffraction of light, and in so doing finally refuted his own theory of light.
None of your students probably know how to refute the arguments put forth by another student.
Chiefly because of their abridgement of regular classes in order to increase training time, the athletic program was cut.
At the end of a year half of the monkeys were dead.
"Recent research has refuted the general theory of relativity, thus disproving the fact that the Earth revolves around the sun."
"I do not intend to refute the truth of any religion. Each one has something good and something bad," he said.
Each line of evidence only refuted part of it and when other lines of evidence were taken into account the theory didn't seem in any way falsified.
These findings refute the claims of certain creationists that human evolution is a theory in crisis.
I'm afraid you will have to refute this evidence yourself.
He refuted his earlier statement that he thought the instructor was behaving unethically.
The argument that the cause of the Industrial Revolution was not the growth in number of entrepreneurs can be refuted quite simply.
The theory was criticized, refuted and abandoned by the scientific community.
I would refute that idea and say that while the book is important in its subject matter it does not, in fact, contain any new ideas.
Towards the end of the 19th century, factories became bigger and employed more people.
When the first potatoes were planted in Ireland in the 1590s, people thought that this primitive looking root was poisonous, and for centuries scientists had to refute these claims.
They attempt to refute each of his points, but I don't think they succeed.
Some scientists have refuted the hypothesis that different
The scientists' work refutes the idea that the human mind works in such a way that it must result in creating weapons of mass destruction.
"This argument fails to refute the conclusion that under a system of private property people have incenitive to improve the quality of their children."
However, the geologic evidence we have discussed thus far refutes this viewpoint.
It is interesting to note that earlier hypotheses about the Plague were all refuted by medical testing.
Velikovsky was criticized by scientists for failing to provide a new theoretical explanation of the facts he presented.
It was assumed that since the most important techniques of Sumerian literature were borrowed by the Akkadians, the literate and urban Akkadians must have borrowed their Mesopotamian religion from the Sumerians.
He laid out in a very clear and concise manner the reasons why he believed the theory was incorrect and could be readily refuted.
The merchant classes in England and Holland provided the funds and economic tools to ship goods to the areas of highest demand and also to suppress popular uprisings such as the mid 18th century's Luddite movement, which protested the continued replacement
He refuted the arguments of his predecessor, putting forward his own views on the origins of the universe.
But in the following decades, that theory was refuted by fossil finds in Africa and elsewhere.
Later the government's policy of financial austerity was to prove extremely costly when fighting the American War of Independence
The blatant nationalism of the 1930s is generally believed to have accelerated the outbreak of a major war.
Although no one will probably ever be able to completely refute the theory, most astronomers now consider it impossible for intelligent life to evolve on a planet unless that planet has a stable source of energy other than just sunlight.
A hundred years ago, the idea that diseases were caused by tiny living things that could not be seen under a microscope would have been considered ridiculous by most scientists.
He has refuted claims that his theory is detrimental to the teaching of evolution.
Professor: The new biography disputes his claim that the famous photograph of him being briefed by British military officers was taken in a bunker.
Professor: Primarily, the study found that there is no evidence that indicates men have stronger spatial skills than women.
At the time, Einstein's ideas about relativity were seen as radical and fanciful, and they were widely criticized and rejected as nonsense; it took years for physicists to accept his concepts.
One of the goals of the mathematician G.H. Hardy to prove that Ramanujan's claims were correct despite the impossibility that he could have come up with such ideas by himself without having proven training in complex mathematics.
"If working hours are not the issue, what else is there to refute this theory?"
"While I think that the history teacher is wrong in his interpretation of the baron's letter from 1882, his views are interesting and do not need to be refuted"
Psychologists have refuted the theory that a lack of father-figure in childhood is behind mental problems later in life.
Your parents always refuted this idea, and told you that good breeding and education were far more important than the family into which one is born.
However, scientists were never able to refute it, and while it is generally accepted as correct today, the idea that diseases are caused by unknown 'agens' received its death knell when Weil's experiments in the early twentieth century proved con
"This book refutes the theory of evolution," the old man said.
The article refutes the argument that the French were more democratic or merciful than their opponents.
All of this evidence appears to refute the claim that all humans are religious by nature.
"I have refuted your claims!" the teacher shouts.
Anthropologists will find it very difficult to refute the theory that modern humans are, at least to some extent, a hybrid species.
Professor: "The goals of the American Revolution were the same as those of the French Revolution, liberty, equality and brotherhood.
Noah was unable to refute his uncle's accusations
The impenetrable nature of the argument in this case will no doubt lead people to doubt the conclusions that have been drawn.
The early humanists refuted some of the key arguments made by the religious leaders of the day.
She cited several of his early paintings in which the light coming through windows in the upper part of the paintings is on the left side of the canvas; but in the natural light, it would have been on the right side.
The study undermines climate-science sceptics' arguments that assuming the earth was warming from human activities was based on dubious evidence and needed reworking.
The traditional approach to teaching the history of the Anglo-Saxons, also called the "manners and customs"
However, the first law of thermodynamics refutes the possibility that energy can be created or destroyed.
So far, no-one has been able to find serious flaws in Miller's refutation of the young earth creationist claims.
Professor:The papers refuted the theory put forward by Professor Mapple in an earlier study on the subject.
The new evidence that has come to light, however, seems to refute this claim.
Rome wasn't destroyed by the barbarian invasions that followed the fall of the Roman Empire, it was actually destroyed by religion.
The theory of 'Intelligence Explosion' refutes the idea of the intelligence as a single entity that can be judged as a value of any kind.
The Church says it cannot refute her story, but states it is an example of demonic possession.
The theory of evolution was first proposed to replace the previously accepted theory of spontaneous generation, which claimed that living organisms could arise from nonliving matter.
After much study and a long period of observations, the astronomer refutes the theory that Pluto is visible as a pinprick of light without the aid of a telescope or special glasses.
However, there were some who disputed this theory.
Babylonian astronomy was less systematic than the Egyptian, but it was more sophisticated than that of the Greeks. The Babylonians were the first to identify certain stars as planets. They also came up with the idea of a zodiac.
You thank the Professor, and sign off.
‘Proving' the theory was merely an academic exercise, as I knew it couldn't be correct.
The experiments that tested the constancy of acceleration were designed to refute Gallileo's claim that all experimental results would be exactly the same if the experiments were carried out on the surface of the moon rather than on Earth.
You decide to end your studying for today.
The true popular origin of Father Christmas seems to lie in the Christian iconography of medieval times, although one 19th century writer did refute that claim.
I will attempt to refute some of the main arguments provided by the motion.
The historians refuted the claims of the newspaper that the miscreants had been caught red-handed.
Edison used his practical experience in this machinery as the basis on which he constructed his own "invention factory"
By this time the Royal Society was nearly 200 years old, and the biblical view that the world was only 6,000 years old (and men weren't descended from monkeys) had been greatly refuted by scientific evidence.
The only thing Hitler did was attempt to refute the fact that there had been an organized mass extermination of Jews and other people in the concentration camps.
Noam Chomsky has written that he believes that certain parts of factory farming, for example the veal crate system, cannot be refuted on any moral grounds.
The main point of interest is that the only known prisoner to ever refute the legitimacy of the sentence was acquitted with no real repercussions.
Both the first and second substances seem to refute his "everything is soft" theory.
"Furthermore," the historian argues, "the Church's argument about the Earth being God's creation, as described in the Bible, cannot be refuted.
The article refutes the idea that eating meat increases the risk of cancer.
However, not all of the historians refute the theory that the First Chinese Emperor invented gunpowder.
I think that the fact that the movie refutes the common belief that the media creates violence by showing that people can and will find a way to kill each other despite seeing only cute infant pictures is what makes it so powerful.
Fortunately, the experiment refuted his theory.
Fortunately, the experiment conclusively refuted his theory.
But the creationists' claims have been widely refuted by the scientific community and the claim that mutations cause harmful effects has been especially well refuted.
However, their refutation of the theory that living things are not made up of cells was later disproved.


#reiterate

While the Army has always been an important institution in Brazil, the number of officers...
In the last 150 years, technology has continued to accelerate.
Another thing that is necessary to change in order for work to continue in the mine is for the local government to reiterate its safety regulations.
Please reiterate the instructions.
Professor: Reiterating what I said before, the main problem facing us today is that our educational system's primary orientation is towards the economy and the job market, so we are training people to be efficient robots and not teaching them how to be
They reiterated that the war was for a just and noble cause.
If you want your message to sink in, you have to reiterate it.
He explained that the letter contained nothing that he had not reiterated several times before in public.
Professor: We have carefully listened to your views, and we have tried to reiterate them as faithfully as possible.
The question was asked repeatedly by the opposition during the politician's speech.
The materials that the American Historical Association suggests you may want to include in your research are: newspapers, books, government documents, family papers, photographs, letters and diaries.
He needed to reiterate the plan so that everyone would be on the same page.
At this point, it should be reiterated how important it is not to panic.
In the 12th century, under Henry II, the English common law was starting to take shape, with court records being kept and appeals beginning process.
With the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the collapse of the Soviet Union two years later, a unified Germany was free to join both NATO and the EU, something that it had long been prevented from doing byMoscow.
The skill of repeating sounds, words or sentences that one hears is not developed by most children until their third year.
The chief wanted to reiterate that although he appreciated what D'Arnot had done, there was no need for him to do it again.
In July, a secret shipment of explosives, sent by the Algerians to their agents in Britain, was seized by the British authorities; the British government, however, declined to publicly reiterate its warning that the Algerian ambassador should be expelled.
The minister reassured the nation that he had confidence in British arms and everyone should reiterrate their faith in our courageous soldiers and superb artillery.
It is illegal to smoke in the building and this rule should be reiterated to all employees.
The results of our study could possibly have an impact on future drug design, but we must reiterate that this is preliminary research.
If you continue to violate the stipulations of your freedon, you will be incarcerated and all privileges revoked. Do you understand?
"We have absolutely no doubt about the importance of implementing these proposals" the minister repeated. "They must be implemented!"
When the party first came to power, it reiterated its campaign promises and stressed that it would uphold them regardless of opposition.
I'll reiterate the class syllabus for you one more time.
"The Court can enter it's order to show cause and Pappy reiterates his request to be released on bail."
Their agreement yesterday to continue talks at the highest level reiterated their commitment to resolving the crisis.
Although it didn't enjoy widespread acceptance in religious or political circles, Darwin's ideas were quickly and steadily reiterated by other intellectuals.
The men are saying that the captain has to make all of this information much clearer because it is confusing them.
Thankfully, when it was renegotiated for another hundred years in 1985, most of the potential problems had been eliminated.
The Director reiterated the need for every nation to contribute a workable plan for energy conservation.
"I'll reiterate," he says, that you will have to read the sample for your essay on Tuesday.
The first settlers and native peoples to the Americas often interacted,reiterating earlier cultures.
Although the Church often reiterated the idea that woman was the "weaker vessel", this had not, in practice, prevented women from occupying powerful and important positions in Church organizations.
The Second World War provided many jobs and potential for advancement to workers in the armaments industry although they still had to work long hours, often around the clock, week in, week out, for six years without a break.
The Prime Minister reiterated her refusal to resign.
The importance of the event was reiterated to them.
In the announcement, officials reiterated that visitors were free to enter the country but would have to comply with a dress code and respect Ramadan.
Leading geneticists have reiterated that the work doesn't indicate that there is one simple origin of all humans, as asserted by the creationists.
"It is time to enforce the curfew." The general reiterated as his soldiers aimed their guns at your chest.
The representative from New York stressed the importance of reiterating to the public that there was no need to panic.
The example of piracy off the coast of Somalia is one that clearly shows the need to have a single international copyright law, and for it to be effective it must be much more stringently enforced.
And that's why I need to reiterate that they are not optional!
The private-enterprise system, while rejenerating the economy, also is detrimental to the environment.
The Emancipation Proclamation was a reiteration of the message that slavery was coming to an end.
The move from hunter-gathering to farming can be seen as a net loss in the long term, as the best resources were left unused or underused.
The changes needed to produce a viable government system in Nigeria have been discussed, debated, and iterated upon on several occasions since the end of military rule.
UNESCO has reiterated its call for Iraq and all member states to respect and protect the cultural heritage of Iraq.
At 16:30 the Prime minister reiterated that while people across the country were indeed suffering from poverty and the social effects this entailed, there was no possibility of extending the scheme to include them.
The bishops reiterated the church's commitment to fighting apartheid.
The purpose of my visit to Australia is to reinforce and reinvigorate the ties that bind the two nations.
The prime minister reiterated his statement that the Swedish Government held no responsibility for the incident
The dean explains that in order to be admitted to the university as a transfer student, you should call the registrar. He says you should not leave the office until you have reiterated this procedure back to him correctly.
However, the main purpose of the meeting is to reiterate our commitment to the project and reassure Mr. Johnson that things are going smoothly.
Reflecting on this course, I think it has served as a good introduction to the fascinating
Now the story of Jesus' last days has been related and, while different views will be discussed later in this class, it is important to reiterate one fact: there are absolutely no original Christian writings from the first century.
In the early 19th century, the attempts of workers to improve their working conditions met with limited success; these efforts essentially went nowhere and were in some cases even counteracted.
Marx felt it necessary to reiterate that class division was not confined to issues of ownership but also extended to control and alienation.
Furthermore, while many other schemes for a European Union had been put forward previously, and some of the same principles re-iterated, Black Friday is generally seen as the point where the EU concept started to gain currency.
After the Hamburg firestorm, in which the firemen had to tirelessly bucket water against a raging inferno for over twenty-four hours, it became clear that the whole town would burn to ashes unless something was done, and fast.
I'm looking for someone to take the reins at S.E.T.I. and reiterate the important work that we're doing here.
Before the vote on the bill, the vice president repeated the chief's concerns about it and mentioned that there was even internal dissension within the tribe.
I will reiterate, the 'theory' of evolution is an accepted scientific fact
The public health department is urging residents to reiterate that swimming at the beach is safe.
And he will have plenty of time to reiterate his views at length when he is a guest on Desert Island Discs.
It is important to remember that these changes were not written in stone, the government did not have a plan, and they had to reiterate their policies several times.
However, it should be reiterated that the field of genetic research is still in its infancy, and as such, many of the experiments that have been carried out so far have been unsuccessful, and others achieved results which were later found to be inaccurate.
However, common law has been extended by the courts so that today it enforces many of the rights in the Bill of Rights, such as the right to an attorney and to not be confronted with witnesses against you.
The organization of the League of Nations , the first major attempt at international cooperation, was a failure.
In the present scenario the problem of environmental protection has to be reiterated to every state.
Your idea that the prices of only the most desirable objects rise will be undermined if people can actually see the prices of a few of your other stock.
The changes that took place in the state structure are more obvious if we look at what was going on in France, which was of course the most important state in Europe at this time.
The chief of the United States army was forced to reiterate that military personnel were not to take sides in industrial disputes.
We need to reiterate the fact that private property is one of the basic foundations of a market economy.
And if the necessity arises, I will reiterate that fact to you.
They reiterated that the work at the center was of crucial importance.
The intention is to reach the outskirts of Paris in eight days.
I REITERATE, you can't let my brother's antics distract you!
Although all the kids in the focus group liked the new design, they had one major complaint: they couldn't figure out how to use it.
These principles were laid out in the Federalist papers, which Alexander Hamilton, James Madison and John Jay reiterated in the 1788 publication The Federalist.
The reasons for this descent into chaos are difficult to determine due to a paucity of written records at the time, which have had to be pieced together by historians and archaeologists.
The United States has reiterated that its policies towards the Middle East will not be affected by the change in leadership.
The postman had to reiterate the instructions whenever someone new joined his round.
Professor: The measures must be reiterated to form a coherent whole and achieve the desired result.
It is useless to reiterate. I have made up my mind.
The first is that a global tax on financial transactions should be implemented, with the revenue used to pull the world out of poverty.
As the evidence we have looked at in this chapter should have reiterated, the issue of whether there was or was not an ancient civilization that engulfed one of many modern cultures is a very fascinating issue.
The official said he wanted to reiterate the fact that the president's visit is in no way a presidential endorsing of any candidate.
But you need not have worried about Jamaica as its lawyers, businessmen, and politicians quickly reiterated their intention to remain part of the empire.


#represent

During the eighteenth century, the right to vote was still a lively topic, the main question being whether the right to vote should be limited to those who owned land or whether all adult men, regardless of their wealth, should be allowed to vote
The lobby of the art museum was crowded with elegant guests, who were there for the opening of an exhibition in honor of the museum's renowned director.
The two houses of Parliament (House of Lords and House of Commons) together represent the will of the people.
When the Mayor of Ecclesburgh in 1905, he represented the working people of the town.
Several key figures in the Enlightenment are considered to be forerunners of modern socialism, notably Voltaire,
The National People's Congress is the most powerful of all the assemblies, as its members are selected through direct elections.
Although 60,000 young men were sent to fight they did not truly represent the society from which they came from.
The government must be changed so that the people may represent the wishes of those who elected them.
The painting is a portrait of the artist's mother, who represents Victorian morality, btit also seems to represent an entire culture.
In the United States, there is an under-representation of Latinos and African-Americans in the genetic professions.
The battle represented a victory for the parliamentarian forces and a defeat for the royalists.
During the early 20th century, most countries in the world had at least a limited form of democracy, and many allowed people to vote regardless of race or gender.
He said, and ran back to the house.
"It was one man, Joachim de Flore, who revolted against the corruption in the Catholic Church and returned the knowledge of God to its rightful place in the world by representing him as an unknowable being."
In many countries, politicians represent not just one but several political parties.
Colonial troops were important, because the British government did not want to risk the lives of its own citizens, but it still wanted to be able to represent its interests.
The world's population could equally be divided by racial groups, such as Mongols, Caucasians, Arabs and Negroids, or by linguistic groups such as Indo-Europeans, Alpines, Semites and Hamites.
Labor unions were able to represent the working people's interest in the government, and also able to negotiate with the company directors on important issues.
The general perception of the educated public is that the state has the exclusive right to represent the people in a political matter and that only states in which this is officially acknowledged are 'legitimate'.
He was an academic who also happened to be a politician who represented a constituency but also had a medical degree and used it on his long weekends off from politics.
The ritual acted as a
In the 19th century, many artists and thinkers rebelled against the standards of good taste that had been established by the scholarly elite; they wanted art to represent the ugly realities of life.
Until the invention of the printing press, the vast majority of people were illiterate and music was an integral part of culture.
The liberal elite, who always represented the educated and wealthy classes, were desperately trying to prevent the spread of Communism.
The Magna Carta, signed in 1215, is a document that represents the first instance in which a king agreed to share his power with his people.
Professor: Each candidate will be given 1 ounce of water every 48 hours.
The novel ‘'The Red Pony'' represents Steinbeck's concept that a child has his own views of life formed from personal experiences rather than accepting an adult's word of how things should be.
The new political party will represent the lower class in the country.
The United States is the only major industrial nation that doesn't require at least some form of compulsory national service for its young people.
The paintings of the caves that kept recurring were probably symbols that these communities used to represent themselves and their own world view.
Professor: The mayor claims that the city's schools are better represented in the state government than they were before.
Later, different governments began to send representatives to meetings in different states in order to reach an agreement on common goals.
There were no dictionaries to define words or encyclopedias to represent knowledge, but there was the Bible.
The politicians put their faith in the army to do the job for them and it soon became apparent that force was the only thing the Palestinians would understand.
Some people were upset by this view, which challenged the centuries-old belief that people from European and Asian backgrounds represented the highest human development.
The world is represented in the artist's paintings.
Most of the representatives at the Council of Constance were clergymen who represented the Catholic Church.
The Roman Catholic Church did not, however, represent the rich and powerful in society.
Answer 2: Professor:
The England of the eighteenth century is often represented as an idyll, a rural paradise.
The conservative party chose a middle of the road candidate in order to represent the greatest number of people.
The People's Party hoped that by denying the rights of the blacks to vote, they would represent less of a threat to white supremacy.
The paintings of Matthias Grunewald represent a marriage between Renaissance and German Medieval Art.
The Sun is just one of the several hundred billion stars in our galaxy, which is just one of the several hundred billion galaxies known to exist, and it would be simplistic to represent the centre of everything as a single burning ball.
The dean reminded the students that they should all report to the auditorium at midday, when the results would be officially announced and their final grades represented by a printout slip.
The North's victory had the effect of strengthening the power of the central government.
It is a photograph of the symbol for 'cyclical time'. It is a representation of your culture's worldview.
In moving from hunting and gathering to farming, humans lost representation of the entire natural world.
The common law consists of all the judge-made rules that the courts use to decide current cases.
The treaty represented a temporary respite in the tension between the two countries.
In my opinion, the artist best represents the ideals of Unistat society through its visual art.
The most radical representatives of the feminist movement wish to see male domination overthrown entirely.
The treaty represented the first step towards ending the Cold War.
In the event that the senate doesn't ratify the measure, you decide to go ahead anyway and represent Premier Cinque on your own.
Your government is chosen by the people to represent you in the World Council
The English Civil War was fought between the King and the Parliamentarians between 1642 and 1651. It ended with the beheading of Charles I in 1649 and allowed Oliver Cromwell to seize power and rule as a virtual dictator.
Also, the fact that the Blossoming Toilet Company has hired many engineers from the school during the last few years might represent a serious threat to your future job security.
It is obvious to you now that Rob and his friends are really trying to represent all teenagers of today.
The goal of the companies is to maximize their profits, which in turn increases the number of shares of stock
The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is represented by the Union Flag.
During the English Civil War in the 17th century Parliamentarians represented the working class and Royalists were landlords and aristocracy.
I try to capture the tiredness of my subject with a few lines, so my portrait will look more realistic and expressive.
In the recent past (going back about 100 or 150 years) great advances occurred in technology, especially in the areas of communication.
The Roman Catholic Church was politically powerful in the nineteenth century; during this time, it sent large groups of representatives to investigate and report on the apparitions at Knock.
Rousseau believed that our souls represented the same kind of freedom that we see in nature, which is balanced but never strict.
To represent the people in the country's most important decision-making institution, "the parliament", you have to be elected into that institution by the people: the more votes you receive nationally, the more representatives you get into the parliament.
In a sense, the sentence word "represent" can be interpreted as meaning several things.
"Aboriginal Art", is a reminder of the importance of representing the oldest continuing culture in the world, because there are groups of people who have been deprived of their rights to be called "living" cultures.
This theory never really caught on, and has been largely forgotten in the past century,
The powerful army they represent will soon have to be reckoned with.
Professor: The nature of the scientific method means that all experiments and data have to be repeatable by others.
The politicians try to represent their views in accordance with public opinion.
Unsurprisingly the first time that the word ‘representation' begins to appear in newspapers is during the debates over how to seat the American Congress.
To pass the class, you must actively participate in peer reviews. As to how you are graded, there will be four 1-3 page reports.
While the businessmen didn't necessarily represent the ideas of the Empire, they certainly were practiced in the art of negotiation and trade.
During the French Revolution, many of the most radical and influential members of the revolution were not French.
In the beginning of the nineteenth century, the most famous physicists were John Dalton and L. Letteron.
The Italian thinker Tomasso Campanella wrote books on various subjects, including physics, natural history, medicine, and astronomy, but he is best known for his political thought.
The fact that the words were written in English represents an attempt to communicate.
The text is an example of early religious writing which attempts to represent visual art in written form.
In modern usage, a government is represented by a governor, mayor, president, leader or prime minister.
The most obvious representative of the middle class was George Washington.
The novelist Iris Murdoch once said that the essence of good writing is to make the reader participate in the act of creation; in other words, the reader's mind should be involved in the process of representation.
The struggle became a potent symbol of the oppression of the lower classes by the elite.
In 1688, the entire British Army only numbered about 12,000 men, and the population of England was just over three million, so it had a military force of about 1 per thousand in England.
The main representative of structural functionalism was Talcott Parsons.
One of the few non-military roles for women was that of a 'representative' in the newly formed National Guard.
The long but shallow coastline of Britain meant that larger ships could only dock at a few selected major ports.
Congress had to pass a bill that more accurately represents the will of the people.
The Italian Renaissance artist Donatello represented the saint in his sculpture by using a sense of realism.
The medieval barons represented a serious challenge to King John, as they had a great deal of military experience and many held lands that were strategically important.
The original purpose of the religion, the tribal representation of the forces of nature and human characteristics, has been lost.
In 2014, Martin demanded that the university revoke its firing of him and reinstate him as the head of the archaeology department, but the university refused, claiming that the demand had no legal backing and represented an attempt at re-writing history.
The law of supply and demand is often called the 'representative of the interests of consumers'.
The U.N. Security Council is made up of 15 states, each of which has an assigned seat and a representative who has half a vote.
"The concept of the nation-state represents a remarkable advance in human affairs,".


#representative

In eighteenth-century France the representative men of a nation were the intellectuals, authors, artists and scientists.
In the time leading up to the American Civil War (1861-65) there was fierce argument over whether a state had the right to nullify a Federal law, even if it contradicted its own constitution.
Professor: In both cases, the directors are said to have a duty of care towards the companies they represent,
The addition of the House of Representatives is not in the Constitution, but rather was added upon agreement that it should be added in a later amendment.
One of the main aims of Magna Carta was to find a suitable representative for the monarch to deal with the Church, so that the monarch wouldn't have to leave his kingdom.
The United Kingdom's House of Lords is primarily a representative chamber.
Many societies in the Middle East and North Africa tend to be more representative than those in South America, where large landowners still dominate the political landscape.
The World War I chiefs of staff report has been called the most important military document of the twentieth century. It represented a radical departure from all previous doctrines.
The Inuit people, like many Native American tribes, are representative of the clash between tradition and modernity.
On the other hand, in most cultures it is believed that only a representative of the government can officially request help.
Patrick Henry, a representative of the American colonist, delivered an address to the Virginian population, urging them to fight Britain.
The First Partisan Division of the Yugoslav National Liberation Army was a Communist guerrilla unit led by the Croatian Ante Pavelić, who would become the leader of the Independent State of Croatia after the war.
The Preamble to the US Constitution states that one of its purposes is to provide for a more "perfect" representative government.
The social class which a person chooses to represent them, such as a lawyer, typically reflects that person's values and aspirations.
The United States is a republic, in which people elect representatives to make laws for them and tax them to provide essential services.
The English Civil War was fought between the Royalist supporters of Charles I and the Parliamentarians, who thought that the king had gone too far in taking control of the church in England.
The British government of Oliver Cromwell was the first in history to be represented by a king, rather than by a member of the aristocracy.
The Council of Ministers is the highest representative body in the European Union.
The Nazis sent representatives into the town to organise the Jews, who were told to report to the town hall.
The governments of nation states send representatives to the capital of a nation state to discuss laws and policies.
In the 18th century, writers such as Montesquieu and Thomas Paine used the word "democracy" to describe the form of government that had developed in the ancient city-states of Greece such as Athens.
The most radical politicians were angry that in a democratic society, all the citizens did not have the vote.
Our political system is based on the important concept of representative government, which means that citizens vote for people called representatives who then make laws for the country.
In a recent survey, most of the children interviewed preferred the superhero cartoons to more "intelligent" programs.
The United Nations is an international organization of member states that was established to maintain world peace, security and cooperation between the countries.
The Economist newspaper is a wide-ranging publication, and covers sporting events, entertainment and more -- but its news stories always represent a surprising distillation of the most important issues facing the world.
The people do not vote for a representative; instead they vote for a party.
The American colonists saw the British parliament as not a representative of their interests.
These two hundred men then elected forty more, who in turn elected twenty more, who then elected the final fifteen.
Your results were interesting but you can't really quantify your findings due to the small sample size.
The United States has only elected forty-seven men and one woman as president since its independence, which means that only a very few people have been the so-called "representative" of the people.
After Britain still refused to send a representative to the Vatican, the Pope published the encyclical "Mirari Vos" (1832), in which he rejected the concept of absolute monarchy.
The English Civil War was fought between the Royalists, who believed in the need for a king and other traditional values, and the Parliamentarians, who represented the growing middle classes.
Some of the most distinguished members of the National Assembly were advisors to the king.
As the Native American population declined, it became harder for them to elect their own representatives.
The French people thus desired a monarch who would better represent the entire population and not just the aristocracy.
A research project by St.
The English Civil War began when Parliamentarians rebelled against the autocratic rule of King Charles I
Parliamentary politics in countries with authoritarian governments, such as Russia, often consists of representative, elected assemblies whose members have few or no real powers.
The tendency to believe that something is inevitable is almost always proven wrong, usually in unexpected and dramatic fashion.
The Weimar Republic: Government of Germany from 1919 to 1933, set up as a parliamentary democracy, with elements of proportional representation.
The problem is that, at least in the United States, "politics as usual" has come to be associated with deception and representative democracy has become a dirty phrase.
The New York legislature in 1788 created the office of a Council of Advisors to the governor. The governor was to appoint a Council of seven men who could advise him and represent the people at large when necessary.
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would authorize the construction of three new prisons in Alabama.
The early nineteenth century was a period representative of orderly government; the post-war period saw an expansion of the franchise, and demands for reform grew.
Parliamentary democracy is based on the representative system.
The great majority of people in the Western democracies do not personally know their representatives,
During the eighteenth century many of the American colonists wished to take a more representative role in government.
The charge was led by the Vienna-born lawyer Karl Lueger , who later became Mayor of Vienna. He was a passionate opponent of the Catholic Church and especially its representation in politics.
The United Nations is set up as a result of World War II and is intended as a means of preventing future wars, with the goal of maintaining international peace and security.
This included citizens from every part of society. The delegates elected to the Estates General were "representatives" of all the people in their particular part of French life.
The Electoral College is a group of people who officially 'represent' their state in the choice of the US president.
Because the members of the National Assembly represented the views of their local constituents, they were more responsive to the will of the people than the king ever was or could be.
The House of Representatives, which also was chosen by the people, would meet to write laws while the Senate would be responsible for making sure that the laws made by the House of Representatives didn't conflict with any of the sovereign states' constitutions.
They also elect some of their own number to serve in the lower house of parliament, the House of Representatives.
Parties are made up of people and as such they are representative of the people who join them.
The main reason for the lack of enthusiasm for women's voting rights was the fear that women did not act as representatives of the views of all their compatriots, since they would be voting as women rather than as citizens.
Prime Minister Louis St.John continually criticized the Governor General's official representative in the House of Commons.
However, the size of the democracies is not necessarily representative of the will of all citizens.
Lenin had returned to Russia and was soon sending letters to the Bolsheviks there, denouncing the actions of the men he had sent.
The workers of the dangerous and discredited job of workhouse porter unsuccessfully attempt to get themselves a better deal by using the vote in order to send in representatives who will plead their case to the local government.
The most radical revolutionaries quickly decided they could finish off the king and all his supporters if they disobeyed their Governor and sent a small group to London to demand that the king return all power to the people and to make him answer for his crimes.
During the Middle Ages members of the clergy, by claiming they spoke for god, became increasingly powerful and rich.
However, the counterrevolution made a serious mistake: it tried to undercut the new liberal constitution and replace it with a more authoritarian system.
The members of the First and Second Estates represented the common people, or at least a majority of them.
The French kings were not elected, and many subjects of the king did not have
During the eighteenth century the power of European monarchs was increasingly challenged by new representative assemblies.
Professor: The Germans selected a "cabinet of barons", a group of independent-minded, well-known men who would be representative of the diversity of the nation as a whole.
However, in most of Western Europe, the aristocracy had more power than the monarchs. The exception was England, where Parliament represented the people and had more power than the monarchy.
The Eighteenth-century philosopher Montesquieu believed that the 18th-century British system of representative government was superior to other types of government where a single ruler controls all decision-making.
In the 1780s to 1840s, he was instrumental in passing laws through parliament that became known as the "Indian laws"
It is an interesting fact that many countries top political leaders do not come from; what could be described as the ‘average' population of that country.
The most important representative of this school was the 18th-century German thinker Immanuel Kant.
The important thing is that the democratic countries of the West are, by and large, run by men and women who were democratically elected by the people. These countries also have a tradition of respecting the rights of the individual.
It is difficult to know what a representative sample of the whole population would look like.
The National Assembly, which represents France's diverse population was a true reflection of the nation.
A carefully-chosen selection of the most hard-working and intelligent members of their class should represent their school.
They believe the country should be ruled by a representative democracy in which the people can vote for their leaders
The American colonists insisted on being represented in the British Parliament but not ruled by it.this situation eventually escalated into the Revolutionary War.
Test over. Please note you need a score of 15/20 to get the highest mark.
England was ruled by a Parliament in which the members were freely elected by the citizens.
It is quite likely, therefore that this individual was a chosen representative of his people and not an enslaved individual.
The Second Spanish Republic was the representative government of most of Spain between April 14, 1931 and the end of the Spanish Civil War.
The House of Lords used to be the biggest obstacle to passing any bill into law because the Conservatives have most of the representatives in it.
For most of its history, the United States has been represented in a presidential system in which citizens vote for representatives to head the executive branch of their national government.
The 1871 Paris Commune was a revolutionary government that existed for only two months, but is still considered to be the closest event to a socialist government in history, with members being elected representatives of various working-class occupations.
Professor:The aim of the revolution was to overthrow the mountain aristocracy and replace it with a representative democracy.
Under the French republic, all adult males in France were granted full citizenship and representation in the political system.
Parliamentary systems are representative democracies in which citizens vote for individual representatives to make laws on their behalf.
