#alacrity


He responded to the idea for a special edition of the student magazine with alacrity and wrote an entire essay about his experiences.
With alacrity, the student read through the stack of books for a second time to try to absorb as much information as possible.
Alex's alacrity impressed his supervisors, who gave him more responsibilities and projects.
The militia's quick capitulation had been in marked contrast to the alacrity with which they had embraced the revolt just two years earlier.
Every Disney worker I spoke to, from ticket sellers to gardeners sprucing up already-immaculate flower beds, knew the answer to my questions and responded with smiling alacrity.
She accepted the offer for the scholarship with alacrity and took the first available flight to America.
Nina was certainly a helpful guide, and the alacrity she displayed in approaching the work was very inspiring for her team.
The heir to the throne showed a great alacrity for learning, absorbing knowledge and instruction like a sponge.
The team of scientists worked with alacrity to test the hypothesis, and at last they had definitive proof that their theory was correct.
The new scholarship program was received with alacrity by the student body, who paised the program for its inclusivity.
He performed his duties with alacrity, and in less than a week he had completely reorganised the library.


#alleged


The alleged procedure used by the Romans to create a primitive form of beer was to mix juice from crushed beech nuts and honey, which was then administered to the soldiers for its mildly intoxicating effects.
Hundreds of alleged UFO sightings are recorded each year.
The alleged theft of millions of pounds worth of jewels was an elaborate accusation.
At age fifty, the alleged spy was arrested and sentenced to fourteen years in prison for espionage on behalf of the Soviet Union.
The factory owner was under investigation for alleged tax evasion and illegal dumping of waste. He was ordered to stop production in his factory immediately.
The trial against the alleged terrorists attracted considerable attention from both domestic and international press.


#amplify


Technologies of communication amplify the reach of mass media.
The ability to amplify sound has been around a long time, but it became truly practical with the mass production of electronic transistors in the mid-twentieth century.
The invention of radio was followed by the invention of the television, which amplified the power of the spoken word and allowed even more detailed vision into far-off places and events.
The invention of electronics made it much easier to amplify and transmit voices or music.
Modern technologies, most notably the nuclear bomb, have amplified our destructive potential many times over.
The spies were able to intercept weak enemy radio signals, amplify them and then try and decode them.
New surveillance technology would amplify the repressive power of the state.
Loudspeakers can now amplify sounds to a deafening level, or quiet them to near inaudibility.
Since the end of World War II, the United States has used its status as the world's foremost military power to amplify its soft influence on the global stage.


#antecedent


The antecedents to the modern novel can be traced back to Latin and Italian Renaissance literature from the end of the 1400s and beginning of the 1500s.
The building was the antecedent to what would later become the British Museum in London.
The antecedents to the modern theory of modal realism, summarised by the maxim "Whatever can exist, does exist", can be found centuries earlier with the work of the ancient Greek philosopher Plato.
The antecedent to the Magna Carta was a ninth-century document called the Law of the Forrest, granted by an Anglo-Saxon king to a small number of his nobles.
The antecedent to the periodic table of elements was the discovery of some basic similarities in the chemistry of the metals and non-metals.
The antecedents to this style of painting could be found in works from the Italian Renaissance.
The antecedents to modern human rights laws can be found in the Magna Carta, the English Bill of Rights, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and other documents.
The antecedent to the Sunday School is the Sabbath Day school inaugurated in 17th-century colonial America.


#antithesis


The system of Common Law that still exists in England and in most of the former colonies is the direct antithesis of an absolute monarchy.
Jennifer has always been the quiet and shy type, her antithesis being her very extroverted friend Tina.
The belief that only the upper class should be allowed to vote was the antithesis of democracy.
The coldness and darkness of winter were the antithesis to the warm sun light and clear blue skies of summer.
Some argue that Stalin's rule represented the antithesis of everything Karl Marx had envisioned, despite claiming that he was steering Russia towards a Socialist Utopia.
Einstein was fixated with the beauty of the fundamental laws underlying reality, embodying the antithesis of the power-hungry politicians who tore down the world around him.
The antithesis of the Platonic view of the integers as a permanent entity is the Intuitionist view that they are products of fallible human intuition.

#articulate


One thing that is marvellous about human beings is our ability to articulate our thoughts and our feelings in a myriad of different ways.
The important men of the city were called to a meeting to articulate their demands for a new constitution.
They didn't embrace new ideas, they were unable to think logically and, in many cases, couldn't articulate their thoughts.
Some of the legal rights documents, such as the Magna Carta were an attempt to articulate and formalise the rights traditionally held by the King's subjects.
Marx was an influential philosopher and a powerful writer, and many of his ideas have been articulated at length by people who shared his ideas.
The way he taught was not by giving them information, but by asking them questions and then waiting for them to articulate their own answers, a method made famous by Socrates.
After a long silence, he found his voice and articulated what everyone was thinking but afraid to say.
The union leader's ability to articulate the concerns of the workers and explain the reasons for their strike to a mass audience on television was invaluable.
The philosopher was skilled in articulating his ideas and gained many followers as a result.
I agree with this analysis; as a professor, one of the things I value most in my students is their ability to articulate their thoughts.


#aspect


A central aspect of scientific socialism is that it is incompatible with discrimination of any sort, particularly on the grounds of gender, race or sexuality.
The main aspect of Native American religion that made the Spanish missionaries' work much easier than in other parts of the Americas was the fact that most tribes believed in a singular Creator.
The main aspect of the speech everyone seems to be agreeing about is that it was a stinging confirmation of all the negative stereotypes that the public has about Hollywood - superficial, self-absorbed and focused on money.
Depending on what aspect of college life you consider most important, there are several colleges which might be good for you.
The predicament this family faces reflects just one aspect of the inadequacies of the unemployment safety net, which has been strained by the pandemic.
One aspect of the mayor's job is to make sure that different departments receive adequate funding for the tasks they need to accomplish.
The most worrying aspect of this situation is the negative impact it will have on the children of the family. They will be in danger of becoming homeless.
The idea was to modernise various aspects of the house without changing its essential character, which included finding ways to restore the old floorboards to their original condition.


#assert


The purpose of the mission was to assert American influence in a post-war Europe, in order to make sure that American loans to these rebuilding countries are repaid.
"There's no evidence that land use is damaging the river," asserted the local council representative.
It was clear that science would have to assert its independence from religion. The way this was done in the nineteenth century was to insist that religious questions were outside its domain and that scientific truth was entirely distinct from religious truth.
The most effective method of asserting dominance in an organisation, according to social psychologists, is to become a member of its dominant subgroup.
The government has asserted its right to refuse the Freedom of Information request on the grounds that the information pertains to security matters.
He made a special appearance on television asserting that the allegations against him were false, however this only increased suspicion towards him.
The French asserted that the war was just and necessary to prevent Catholic Austria from overwhelming the smaller Protestant states.
The young journalist asserted that politicians are, as a rule, strongly motivated by self-interest. She said that they are much more keen on gaining votes than doing the right thing.
The professor then proceeded to assert that the new evidence meant that most of what she had been taught when she was in college was wrong.
However, the one thing on which everyone seems to agree is that the individual has the right to assert full control over his or her own body.
The general public has a tendency to over-assert itself in fields in which it has little competence.
Some historians have gone so far as to assert that the French revolutionaries were deliberately killing their prisoners simply to prevent them from escaping or being rescued.
The wolf asserted his dominance over the pack by beating the other males in a fight.


#assume


It would be a mistake to assume that all human beings are identical: let's say, instead, that each one of us is unique.
The scientists assumed that the test subject were all identical. However, it transpired that some were carrying diseases, hence the experiment did not return any useful results.
Archaeologists assumed that many of the missing pieces of evidence are probably hidden under miles of ocean, or buried underground.
However, we have to assume that the other inhabitants of the earth have gone through similar types of evolutionary changes.
He sought to find a full explanation for the complex causes of the conflict. However, assuming that the war was motivated by simpler things such as nationalism, will make the story much easier to understand and follow.
No assumptions can be made about the validity of this work until it is peer-reviewed.
It is commonly assumed that pupils learn at the same rate regardless of their parents' education, social class or income. However, in reality this is seldom the case.
The early church fathers assumed that the Earth was at the center of the universe and that the Sun, the stars and the planets all revolved around it.
The main assumption of the Council of Europe is that an independent European Court for Human Rights would help guarantee the protection of human rights in Europe.
One could assume that the proliferation of paper currency plays a vital role in the development of civilisation.
An important feature of the legal system is the suspects are assumed to be innocent until proven guilty.
While the First World War resurrected the phenomenon of large-scale warfare, it was assumed that advancements in technology would prevent another all-out war for another hundred years.
It is unrealistic to assume that any problems within the family can be solved in the absence of an outside help.
