#integrate


His main idea for the design was to integrate opportunities for social interaction into the building itself, such as restaurants, sports facilities, kindergartens and even dental clinics.
By integrating the theory of relativity and quantum mechanics, scientists would be able to arrive at a more complete understanding of physics.
The successful slave revolt inspired both the slaves and the free people of colour to struggle against the racial hierarchy, integrating into a broader revolutionary movement.
The artist integrated his experiences into his artwork, and produced a collection of very vivid paintings of daily life in the village.
The challenge of the modern world is to find ways to integrate transformative ideas with our current customs and traditions.
There were many attempts by some states to integrate the refugees into the local population, but they encountered many obstacles, the first of which was that the refugees did not speak much English.
The Equal Rights Movement was about integrating women into all aspects of society, and encouraging them to work in traditionally male-dominated industries and vice versa.
His writings helped to integrate the ideas of Darwin into popular discussion, because he expressed them in ways that people found easy to understand.
A ballet typically integrates music, choreography, costumes and scenery to tell a story.
The digital camera became obsolete after it became possible to integrate it into mobile phones, which revolutionised how photos were stored and shared.


#introduce


During the first half of the twentieth century, cars were introduced gradually onto the streets of cities such as London and New York.
It was necessary to introduce a strong leader to prevent the country falling into disarray and to keep the Empire whole.
The purpose of the May Fourth Movement was to introduce fresh Western ideas into China.
However, European countries began to introduce restriction on immigration as resentment towards foreigners increased, despite the fact that they were valuable to the economy.
Darwin introduce the idea of natural selection and revolutionised our understanding of evolution.
The Puritans were a group of religious refugees fleeing from religious persecution in the Catholic Church who wished to introduce their own form of Protestantism to the New World.
In the late 20th century, many companies introduced computers into their offices, as the value of word processors became apparent.
The English introduced the potato to Ireland in the 16th century, and it was adopted as a common food under the oppressive English rule.

#maxim


A general maxim to keep in mind is that information is only useful if you process it correctly.
"Our maxim is that the end justifies the means," he said impenitently.
The successful business owner offered the maxim, 'Speak softly and carry a big stick; you will go far' to finish his speech at the school.
The maxim "All that glitters is not gold" clearly applies in this case, as it turned out that all of her jewellery was actually fake and made from scrap metal.
During the Cold War, the maxim of deterrence theory was "peace through fear".
The maxim that 'the people are fit to govern themselves' may appear on the surface to be self-justifying, but is in fact deeply flawed.
The maxim "You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs" is usually used to justify destruction in the service of a higher goal.
The maxim that the 'greater good of the greater number ought to prevail' is a summary of the central thought behind utilitarianism.
The maxim 'All men are created equal' was used to argue that it was illegitimate to own another person, and that slavery should be made illegal.


#meticulous


Amadeus was a meticulous man who kept his rent receipts from the past twenty-three years in an old cigar box.
A second passage about the discovery of the pharaoh’s tomb can be found in Carter's diary. Carter was a meticulous man and kept an excellent journal of his work in Egypt.
This artist is a meticulous recorder of details, and often bases his pictures on specific memories.
The writers of these texts were often rather meticulous at recording data, but indifferent to the accuracy of that data.
The craftsman was meticulous in the organisation of his workshop: every tool was always put back to its place,
He is usually meticulous about his appearance, but recently he has been showing up looking unkept and disheveled.
His rebuttal of my argument was meticulous and thorough, and I had no room to argue against him.
The description of this scene was given in meticulous detail, painting a vivid picture so clear that the reader could almost see it.


#myriad


The movement to end discrimination against the ethnic group has made considerable progress in the last few decades, but the myriad social problems they face are still great.
Of the myriad stars in the Milky Way, many are almost certainly orbited by planets similar to our own.
The United States had already entered World War I under Wilson's presidential leadership, and the myriad effects of the war could be felt even in the sparsely populated parts of Central America.
The human brain has myriad creative capabilities, and can invent complex ways to achieve almost any creative task, from mending a bike to building a plane.
The stunning workshop was filled with myriad tools, including all sorts of saws, hammers and sandpaper.
The world contains myriad cultures with all kinds of different traditions, and it is worth traveling more to explore as many as possible.
The University, while very impressive, was somewhat difficult to navigate due to the myriad passageways that connected the buildings.
The New English Dictionary is a complete guide to the language, listing the myriad variations of each word.
Gazing in wonderment at the myriad stars overhead, he picked out distinctive groups to name, such as the Big Dipper.


#nuance


The differences between the two legal systems of these countries  are mostly in the realm of nuance rather than basic principles.
The current President of the United States is far too shallow and brash a man to appreciate such political nuance.
The writer of this report has made a point of being precise, but also of avoiding unnecessary complexity and nuance.
It is important to remember that Christian conceptions of hell, while similar in many ways, do differ in their nuances.
His English was poor, hence he failed to appreciate the nuances of the argument in the article.
The Age of Enlightenment was a period in which some thinkers started to appreciate that society could progress with the use of logic, and did not need religion to understand the world.
Anthropologists are well aware of the uncountable nuances of social behaviour and never speak in absolutes.


#objective


It is nearly impossible to try to be completely objective when studying or presenting any kind of information of present political relevance.
His hatred toward his enemies is too strong to make him capable of being objective with his decision-making, so it is up to his advisors to prevent him from using unnecessary force.
It is usually the aim of journalist to be as objective as possible when reporting stories, to give facts and provide commentary that avoids advancing their own opinion.
In other words, party politics has been more about the perceived success or failure of the government rather than an objective look at its performance.
However, the question remains: is there such a thing as an objective history, lacking a political agenda entirely?
The  linguists believed that the study of language was an objective science that could determine, in a scientific way, the history of language and the relationships between different languages.
The artist tries to inject as little of himself into his work as possible--he wants the sculptures to speak to objective truths of the human condition, not his personal experiences.
The scholar believed that there was no such thing as an objective historian, because inevitably each historian's view of the world is shaped by their own experiences.
It's an objective truth that the Sun is the center of our solar system, and it makes no difference to that objective truth whether you or I believe it.
The Platonic view of mathematics is that every statement has objective truth: this was challenged by the Intuitionist school of the 20th century.

#obtain


I couldn't obtain a grant, so I had to personally acquire the laboratory equipment.
The settlers of California constructed an elaborate system of channels, dams and reservoirs in order to obtain sufficient water for agriculture.
The excavation of the ancient city of Troy was first begun by the English, but it was the Germans who obtained the majority of valuable artefacts.
In the 16th century, Europeans were able to obtain a new drug called tobacco from natives of the American continent.
The ways in which people obtain their food can have a big impact on the environment. It is becoming evident that industrialised farming and keeping livestock is detrimental to the environment.
It was clear that the British were attempting to obtain as much information about the possibility of a German attack on the coast as they could.
He had to obtain a health and safety license in order to open a restaurant.


#outline


The last section outlines the main causes of increasing wage inequality, namely skill-biased technological change and globalisation.
The book outlines the history of politics in America from the perspective of a conservative.
The suggestion was made that the department outline its rules and regulations in a booklet.
The outline and some details of the government plan seem to have been leaked to the newspapers, and it was all over the front pages the next day.
A presentation by the student outlined the key differences between democratic and autocratic governments, but she failed to give sufficient evidence so support her statements.
The main outline of Marxist theory is that the 19th-century history of Europe consisted in the increasing political control of society by an elite of industrialists and businesspeople, who came to form a class known as the bourgeoisie.
The purpose of this book is to outline the events, ideas and people involved in this revolutionary period in England, not to give large amounts of detail on every event that occurred.
The outline of the charge against the suspect listed several documents he had supposedly smuggled to the enemy, including detailed designs for new tanks and strategies for troop movement, which amounted to treason.


#paramount


The main concern of the Spanish government has always been its relations with the United States, as it is the paramount political and military power in the world at this time.
In the 18th century, the East India Company became so important and powerful that it was effectively the paramount political power in the region.
The U.S. Supreme Court in Washington is considered to be the paramount legal body in the country.
Just as in most other Europeans countries at the time, the church was paramount. Most people were Christian, and those who were not were persecuted.
In the nineteenth century , industrial advances were of paramount importance for the rapid urban development in Europe.
The report concluded that opportunities for education and employment were paramount for the underprivileged if they were to have a chance of improving their lives.
It was of paramount importance that the protesters remain non-violent, or the police would surely have license to intervene.
Although it was no longer considered the sole seat of power, Istanbul remained economically and culturally paramount under the Ottoman Empire throughout the era.
Although the early humanists rejected some of the beliefs and practices of the Catholic Church, they believed that religious faith was paramount to a civilized society and were reluctant to totally discard certain elements of medieval Christianity.
The British Government was not prepared to grant India its independence, since they felt that retaining control over the subcontinent was of paramount strategic and economic importance.
The importance of the king within his realm was second to that of the Pope, whose influence over matters theological (and often political) was paramount.


#plausible


The idea that animals might have some sort of sophisticated inner life or mental experience that is on par with that of humans has always seemed plausible to me.
The lack of plausible alternatives is further indication that this is the most likely hypothesis.
While he might be able to come up with a plausible story about how he obtained the money, the authorities are still going to search his house, and all will be revealed.
Einstein saw the quantum explanation as a plausible interpretation of Planck's work, even though this position was abhorred by the latter.
His argument that European integration will proceed in a positive direction and NATO will not splinter seems very plausible.
His explanation of events is certainly plausible, but has little evidence to back it up.
The argument may be plausible, but the history of mathematics reveals that without formal proof, our everyday intuition is not to be trusted when it comes to infinite sets.
His refutation of my conjecture, dismissed outhand during the lecture, seemed more and more plausible as I reflected on it later.
