#rectify


The situation has been gradually worsening, and the United Nations does not seem to be in a position to rectify the problem.
He said that the US will have to make reparations and rectify their wrongdoings in the Middle East.
It took the government another decade to finally rectify this human rights violation.
The government has made some efforts to rectify this in recent years with programs encouraging children to read.
Although the project was designed to rectify the damage done, some people argued that it would do more harm than good.
The government had to rectify the state of high unemployment by increasing spending to create jobs.
With the aid of nannies and tutors, the young prince was able to rectify his lack of formal education.
The first task of the National Assembly was to attempt to rectify the internal state of France, which was a mess.
All the countries that had previously industrialised, such as Britain and France, passed laws to rectify the disparity between workers' wages and the price of bread.
It is increasingly difficult to rectify the situation because of the impenetrable bureaucratic jungle into which one has to venture in search of a solution.
Although he succeeded in rectifying some of the problems that had been plaguing the company, he was unsuccessful in his attempts to improve the firm's reputation.


#refute


The observations made using the new telescope suggested that Galileo was correct, the Earth revolved around the sun. This refuted the geocentric view supported by the church.
The argument that the cause of the Industrial Revolution was not the growth in number of entrepreneurs can be refuted quite simply.
The theory was criticised, refuted and abandoned by the scientific community after it became apparent that the author used false results to prove his ideas.
He refuted the arguments of his predecessor, putting forward his own views on the origins of the universe.
In the following decades, that theory was refuted by fossil finds in Africa and elsewhere, which proved that people did in fact live in these areas thousands of years ago.
The article refutes the argument that the French were more democratic or merciful than their opponents.
Anthropologists will find it very difficult to refute the theory that modern humans are, at least to some extent, a hybrid species.
The article refutes the idea that eating meat increases the risk of cancer, by proving the previous evidence supporting this claim was false.
However, not all of the historians refute the theory that the First Chinese Emperor invented gunpowder, despite it being highly unlikely it was his own achievement.


#represent


The government must be changed so that the people may represent the wishes of those who elected them.
The battle represented a victory for the parliamentarian forces and a defeat for the royalists.
The United States is the only major industrial nation that doesn't require at least some form of compulsory national service for its young people.
The England of the eighteenth century is often represented as an idyll, a rural paradise.
While the businessmen didn't necessarily represent the ideas of the Empire, they certainly were practiced in the art of negotiation and trade.
The medieval barons represented a serious threat to the King, as they had a great deal of military experience and many held lands that were strategically important.
Women were poorly represented at these meetings since there were usually only one or two women in a room with dozens of men.
She hired a lawyer to represent her at the negotiations, because she was afraid to say something that might be used against her later.
He represented the United States in swimming at three different Olympics, which was quite an achievement.
Reaching one million daily active users represented a great achievement for the website, and all the workers drank champagne to celebrate.


#support


You ask the professor for a sentence containing "defense".
In fact, the main reason that the king supported Parliament was because he needed money to support his lavish lifestyle, but Parliament was unwilling to increase his allowance.
The financial ability of the United States to support a large standing army was a key advantage over its adversaries.
The main way in which he supported himself financially was by painting portraits of the rich and famous.
Although there is evidence that the British were giving native tribes small amounts of surplus weapons and ammunition during War, historians generally support the view that the local tribes fought mainly with their own primitive bows and arrows.
The aim of the bill, introduced by State Senator Guery, is to support and maintain the public transportation system by allocating more public funds.
The government claimed that it was the America's duty to support democracy throughout the world.
The money given by the Crown in support of these business ventures puts the king in great debt.
The revolution failed to gain the support of the population, and its leaders were eventually captured or fled to other countries.
The possible meanings and implications of this new evidence seem to support the idea that there are areas in our brains that are yet to be fully understood.
Nonetheless, while the middle class may have desired political reform and development, it did not support a revolution, which would have put their property at risk.
Support for this revolt came from groups of peasants who were suffering from the consequences of the previous land reforms, which limited their freedom to decide which crops to plant and increased tax.
The new information that's been uncovered since the Dead Sea scrolls were initially translated supports the theory that some parts of the Bible were written earlier than others.
The Nationalist government gained support from industrialists, who appreciated its pro-business policies.
Sustainable Tourism tends to be supported by people within the destination who believe that the extra resources and money from tourism will help their country reach its economic goals faster.


#symbolise


The splendour of the capital city symbolised the wealth and power of the Empire, and its inhabitants were all proud to live there.
For example, aristocrats and kings in the past symbolised their power by wearing certain types of clothing, which were usually elaborate and expensive.
The 20th-century German thinker Heidegger was fascinated by Albert Einstein, whose work in physics symbolised for him that mankind was attaining a new level of intellect that could be used to understand the world rationally and scientifically.
However, in the late 19th century industrialisation replaced agriculture as the main source of employment in England, and the blackened faces of factory workers came to symbolise the working class.
Nelson's column and other monuments to British imperialism were erected throughout the colonies to symbolise the dominance of the British Empire.
The way people choose to wear particular clothes or other items can symbolise their religious or political beliefs.
The Lord of the Flies" symbolises the essential controversy over the nature of humanity: that good and evil coexist in humanity.
However it symbolised the end of an era, and the beginning of a new era of free thought without religious persecution, for which the thinkers of the Enlightenment had envisioned for decades.
The construction of a new railway station symbolised the ever increasing prosperity of the industrial town.
The movement of African-Americans in the United States from discrimination to a position of greater racial equality symbolised the start of a new era.


#systematic


Darwin's 'Theory of Evolution' proposed a logical and systematic mechanism for the progression from simple life forms to complex life forms.
Thinkers in the Enlightenment tended to use rational, systematic thought rather than religion, tradition or superstition to explain events.
Due to a lack os material evidence, it was difficult for the researchers to develop a systematic understanding of the ancient civilisation.
Robespierre, an Enlightenment philosopher, thought that the best way to solve France's social problems was through a systematic reorganisation of French society by the government.
One of the earliest instances of the systematic destruction of a culture was that of the Romans' destruction of the ancient Druids following their conquering of Celtic Gaul.
The subject of anatomy refers to the systematic study of the human body and its constituent parts.
The early Prussian education system was very systematic: all children had to attend, and schools were structured in a hierarchy, with students advancing as they mastered each level of knowledge.
The development of radar was the first major step towards the creation of more systematic methods of tracking objects in the sky.
A part of modern psychology is concerned with developing more systematic ways of diagnosing mental conditions, as well as ways to measure happiness and degree of depression.
The development of steam power which was both efficient and economical caused a systematic restructuring of production techniques.