#rudimentary
Paper was first invented in China at around the year 105, and by the 7th century the Chinese had rudimentary printing presses.
The state of medicine in the Middle Ages was rudimentary: many doctors simply prescribed herbal remedies that did not always have any significant effect. In fact, a lot of the ways in which they tried to cure disease were founded on superstition rather than evidence.
The earliest attempts at formulating quantum theory involved making a large number of very basic assumptions, many of which were rudimentary, to say the least.
There are many candidates for the rudimentary chemical precursors to present-day biological life.
Despite the rudimentary state of medicine in the 18th century, the heuristics in use seem to have been fairly effective.
The only rudimentary networked computers at the time were present at US defence department labs. It was only years later that this technology became widely accessible to the public.
Jennifer had a rudimentary knowledge of the law due to taking a few college courses, but she didn't have anywhere near the expertise of a real lawyer.
Without the invention of the microscope we would not have been able to see and therefore understand the rudimentary function of cells.
Despite his rudimentary understanding of genetics, his brilliant creativity enabled him to make great advances in the medical field.
Stone tools are the most rudimentary of all tools and weapons; they date back millions of years.
At a very young age, she had already developed a rudimentary understanding of many musical instruments, including the piano, violin and harp.


#ambiguous


The answer to the question on the whiteboard was ambiguous: both A and B could conceivably be correct.
The wording of the anti-fraud clause was suspiciously ambiguous; it could be interpreted in many different ways.
His use of ambiguous language to be able to support multiple points of view simultaneously is exactly what you would expect from a politician.
He gave an answer, but his reply was ambiguous, leaving me unsure if he was telling the truth or not.
Ambiguous toy safety warnings have been blamed for a number of children being hospitalised after choking on small toys that were not suitable for their age.
The expression of the woman in Da Vinci's painting is somewhat ambiguous. Some describe it as smug, but others actually think that the emotion that is conveyed is more like melancholy.
The provisions in the document were intentionally worded in an ambiguous manner so as to satisfy most parties.
Their demands were purposely vague and ambiguous so as to attract as many supporters as possible.
The current tax laws give certain advantages to married couples over singles, but the criteria for establishing a marriage under the tax laws is ambiguous.
The lyrics of popular songs are often ambiguous, leaving the meaning of the song open to interpretation by the listener.


#arbitrary


Arbitrary statistical parameters can lead to incorrect conclusions in scientific research.
The boundaries of the estate were purely arbitrary, drawn up by an 18th-century landowner who never even visited the area.
The structure of the police force accords a large degree of power and autonomy to the individual police officer, who can thus act in a relatively arbitrary manner.
The introduction of the new law was an arbitrary decision on the part of the military government.
The process of choosing one interpretation of a text over another is a complex and sometimes arbitrary one, depending on the perspective and experience of the critic.
The conspiracy theorists' decision to believe whatever they want to believe despite the lack of evidence for their claims is an excellent example of how motivated reasoning can lead to arbitrary conclusions.
They argue that while there are some things government ought to prevent us from doing, many of the prohibitions are arbitrary.
The geographical division between North and South Korea is an arbitrary line that was negotiated after the ceasefire.
The university, despite being an institution of scholarship, seems to set completely arbitrary grade boundaries every term.


#dispute


The exact nature and cause of his death, and even the identity of his killer, is still a matter of dispute among historians.
The film director has been involved in a bitter neighbourhood dispute with her neighbour, an ex-policeman. She claims that her neighbour has been stealing packages that had been delivered to her door.
None of the witnesses could agree on the exact number of gunshots that they heard, leading to dispute amongst the prosecutors.
Although the team believe that they have developed a vaccine, there is still dispute as to whether it will be effective or not.
The various theories over who composed Shakespeare's works have been the subject of heated dispute for many years.
The purported benefits of a space program to the Earthbound economy remain the topic of serious public dispute.
The territorial dispute between the two countries has now turned into a full-scale war.
The question of whether it is ethical to genetically manipulate human beings for certain purposes has been the subject of heated dispute among scientists and the general public.


#inevitable


Some political theorists believe that globalisation is inevitable and that individual nation-states are fated to become less powerful.
The sudden collapse of such a large market caused the inevitable closure of many businesses, leading to massive unemployment and plummeting incomes.
Some believe that the increasing reach of decentralised media, and the corresponding inevitable tendency towards sensationalism, are the biggest factors driving present-day cultural shifts.
As the Roman Empire declined in population and power, and new kingdoms challenged its borders, its fall was inevitable.
While some believe that the First World War was inevitable, others say that it was an avoidable incident driven by irrationality on both sides.
The failure of the Ottoman Empire to westernise was inevitable given the strong undercurrent of support for traditional Islam in the heartland of the Empire.
Considering numerous complaints from students about the quality of the lectures, it was inevitable that the final decision to deny him tenure was made.
Although he previously believed armed uprising inevitable, he eventually came to argue that education of the masses could lead to peaceful change.
What impact this debate will have on the future of internet commerce is impossible to predict, but many fear that it is inevitable that companies like Amazon and eBay will become more tightly regulated by government.


#straightforward


Exercising, eating healthily and getting plenty of sleep are all straightforward steps that contribute to a long and healthy life.
His argument is straightforward: since all knowledge is acquired through the fickle senses, everything else is open to doubt.
The beginning of the book is the most straightforward part: it sets out the immediate background to the events of the French Revolution.
His speech is simple and straightforward, without being simplistic, and he is honest to acknowledge when he does not know something.
The most straightforward reading of this text implies that we should make full use of the natural resources available to us and expand into space.
In World War I, Germany's goal was straightforward: it wanted to seize territory from France using its superior military power.
The question is not as straightforward as it appears at first, since there are many subtle issues to consider before reaching a conclusion.
The steps are straightforward: you need to fill in the registration form, hand in your passport for identification, and finally pay a registration fee.


#commonplace


The technologies that were once the sole preserve of the military are now commonplace to the average citizen.
It was commonplace for criminals to be punished by public displays such as hangings.
However, it is only in the last few decades that women have become commonplace in the workplace.
What would now be described as child labour was commonplace in the Victorian Era.
Among this tribe, ritualistic cannibalism was commopnlace.
Life in the early human settlements was fraught with danger, and early death was commonplace.
At the time, plague and disease were commonplace in crowded areas like cities.
It was commonplace for rulers in the ancient world to have many wives and concubines.
Water purification is commonplace in many parts of the developed world, but it is still lacking in much of the developing world.


#contentious


The British Empire's policy of settling the North American continent was a contentious issue throughout American history.
Some people believe there should be a limit to the amount of money an individual can donate to a political party, but this is a contentious issue and many politicians are vehemently opposed to such limits.
The move to demolish the town hall has proved highly contentious among the town's population, with thousands taking to the streets to protest against it.
The decision to drop the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki has been a particularly contentious issue, and continues to remain so even today.
The current legislature has made some contentious new laws on the trade of certain animals, which resulted in loud protests from hunters and pet owners.
The mayor's decision to grant tax exemptions to all artists and their studios within the city limits has been highly contentious with other city authorities.
Between science and religion, little is more contentious than the subject of creation.
The division of Germany after World War II is one of the most contentious issues in recent European history.
While the project has proven to be very lucrative for the company, it has been a highly contentious issue due to environmental concerns.
The proposal to build a shopping mall in the countryside was very contentious, attracting much heated discussion : opponents pointed to the inevitable ecological damage, while the developer suggested that it would bring much needed employment to the area.
The argument over whether or not the European Union should have a unified military is a contentious issue among both the citizens of member nations and the politicians themselves.


#inconsequential


However, the battle itself was of little significance, as it was quite inconsequential to the outcome of the war.
The struggles of the peasants were considered inconsequential by both the Nobles and the Church who saw them as ignorant and worthless.
Constantinople was an inconsequential town at the time of its founding, yet over many years it became one of the key cities in the Roman Empire.
The endless disputes between minor German states, which seemed so important at the time, proved to be completely inconsequential in the long run.
While the actions of those involved were certainly morally wrong, many believed that it was an entirely inconsequential issue when compared to more serious crimes like robbery or assault.
Although a British citizen at the time, Wilberforce's speech arguing against slavery was met with little interest from the public, which at the time saw it as an inconsequential issue of little importance.
The problems that they were discussing were inconsequential when compared to the commonplace poverty and homeless in society.
Despite him spotting the mistake, he thought that it was inconsequential to the report hence did not bother to correct it. However, this led other people to doubt the accuracy of his other results.
At this point the result of their personal contest was already inconsequential, since their team had already lost the overall match.


#endorse


The liberal candidate has received the formal endorsement of the local paper for the upcoming presidential elections.
The Conservatives decided not to endorse the candidate because they thought she was too liberal for their liking.
In 1793, during the French Revolution, King Louis XVI was executed, largely due to his refusal to endorse the Constitutional Assembly's previous actions.
As a leading member of the National Rifle Association, she endorsed the conservative candidate in the forthcoming presidential elections.
Many of the individual colonies themselves issued official endorsements for the declaration of independence.
A theory is nothing more than a set of hypotheses based on observations, and facts are the trials used to endorse or disprove theories.
Being the leading member of the Green Party, he endorsed laws to reduce global warming and heavily criticised the use of fossil fuels.
The Prime minister's statement agreed with the content of the letter but did not endorse its tone.
She refused to endorse the candidate, since his position on immigration was too moderate for her tastes. She held the backward opinion that immigrants should not be allowed to come all.
At the time, a former British prime minister's endorsement of nuclear energy was a rare example of a political figure endorsing a policy position contrary to his own party's stand.
"His bold remarks about the government seem to have been endorsed by two prominent opposition leaders", a newspaper reports.
However, her agent says that she won't decide whether to endorse the candidate until he takes a stronger stance on corporate tax evasion.
Although most political parties were reluctant to endorse him, thinking his views were too left wing, the Green Party showed willingness to endorse him for the next election.
