#distort


This journalist has an irritating habit of distorting the views of his perceived enemies.
He purported to have disproved the theory of universal gravitation, but his version of the theory had been grossly distorted.
The photographs in newspapers and other media sources often provide a distorted window on what is actually occurring, making it appear more sensational and provocative than it really is.
The painting distorts reality to such a degree that it isn't even possible to identify the genders of the singers, let alone their faces.
It is an established fact that politicians tend to distort the truth when it suits their needs.
The party sought to distort the image of the royal family, in order to incite the anger of the public.
History tends to be written from a victor's perspective, hence it may distort the actual events that occurred.
In most dictatorships the mass media are directly controlled by the government, who use them to distort the truth about how popular the regime is and to perpetuate a good image of the government and its leaders.
The book, a bestseller when first published, has been criticised and even ridiculed for distorting the history of the Second World War.


#downplay


The museum's policy of downplaying the more gory and macabre elements of its Native American exhibit allows patrons to concentrate on the uplifting displays.
The high unemployment rate, rising inflation and a deteriorating international situation were all being downplayed by the government.
The mayor is trying to downplay the seriousness of the crime wave that is sweeping the city, despite the fact that the police are being overwhelmed.
The government tried to downplay the incident by saying it was an accident and reporting it as such, but the foreign media quickly scrutinised the facts and revealed the truth.
The accused has tried to downplay his actions in court, but the judge described them as premeditated and vile attacks that have no place in a civilised society.
In a play for power, he downplayed the importance of the achievements of his competition, so as to look more competent in comparison.
The union has tried to downplay the significance of the deal in order to avoid widespread dissatisfaction amongst the workers.
The State Health Department has attempted to downplay the seriousness of the virus.


#undermine


The accident undermined my faith in the safety measures of the construction site, despite repeated assurances that it would not be repeated.
The law prohibiting head coverings in the classroom was disputed by those who claimed that it undermined their religious freedom.
The Prime Minister's speech at the party convention today will seek to undermine confidence in the policies of the opposition.
Lowering the defence budget undermines our capacity to fight off foreign aggression.
The outcome of the Thirty Years' War undermined Spain's status as a first-rank European power even further.
The OPEC Embargo undermined the dominance of the U.S dollar as the world's reserve currency, also strengthening the influence that the oil-producing nations had on international affairs.
The Norman invasion ultimately undermined Anglo-Saxon rule.
One of the major reasons the Roman Empire collapsed was the way in which they allowed conquered peoples to maintain their religions and ways of life. This undermined the influence of the Empire.
Despite their differences, the elite classes in both German states worked in unity to maintain their grip on power and sought to undermine the liberal movement through coercion.
The reforms aimed to undermine the power of the autonomous guilds that dominated life in the towns.


#atypical


The naturalist wrote his thesis on the increasing frequency of atypical migratory patterns in local bird populations.
He was an atypical aristocrat in that he lacked any interest in the further pursuit of money and power.
The atypical structure of the army, in which recruits were voluntary rather than conscripts, contributed much to its success.
The use of the steam-powered engine was quite common in England but quite atypical in France at the time.
At the time a woman practicing medicine was atypical and severely frowned upon.
The so-called "Great Man" theory can be criticised on the grounds that it reduces histories to a series of atypical figures and events, ignoring more mundane but steady trends.
The conversion to wartime hospitals were the first atypical use of castles outside their traditional role of military fortification and residence.
The platypus is a very aptypical mammal, possessing the ability to lay eggs.
There are many problems with the experiment, ranging from the small sample size to the fact that the control group were subjected to extremely atypical conditions.


#constrain


The fundamental distinction between your dreams and reality is that reality will consistently constrain what is possible.
The Common Agricultural Policy was a system that constrained the agricultural market within the Union by levying taxes on certain goods.
The Dutch system of intermittent dykes and dams constrained the river into flowing down a narrower channel.
Constraining the general population's access to weapons without having to impose too great a restriction on their right to defend themselves is a contentious issue in America.
The 1648 Treaty of Westphalia ushered an "age of balance of power" in which the ambition of rulers was constrained by new international conventions, like territorial integrity of states, self-determination, and inviolability of foreign ambassadors.
The modern state's need for economic growth constrains its ability to pursue sustainable policies.
The information age has severely constrained our abilities to keep secrets.
The contract the Korean singer signed with the entertainment company constrained her personal life significantly.
Friedrich Hayek believed that the constraints the government imposes on people should be kept to an absolute minimum.
In the time of Galileo, the Catholic Church constrained the freedom of its scientists by forbidding them from theorising outside the bounds of religious doctrine.
