# adverse

The Italian sailors were horrified at the adverse weather conditions they encountered, and insisted on returning home.
Most of the adverse effects of a plants toxicity are dose-related, meaning that the higher the dose of poison, the higher the probability of harm to the plant consumer.
The adverse effects of the Industrial Revolution include massive urbanisation and major problems with pollution.
The court wrote that the 'modern ventilation system was an adverse change that made for a different planet', and had no legal standing.
The main reason for this was that other countries in the region were developing faster, experiencing greater economic growth and modernisation than Turkey, which saw itself falling behind and becoming increasingly adverse to the West.
The song "Ripple" is a masterpiece of American folk music that deserves greater recognition in popular culture, even though the lyrics contain an element of pantheism that may be considered adverse to Christian doctrine.
The most important adverse effect is the large number of patients who experience weight gain.
The adverse effects of the diet included scurvy, hip fractures and weak knees.
There were some adverse crop effects, but nothing that couldn't be addressed.
Some of the earliest rulers of the Roman Empire, such as Claudius and Caligula, were arguably as mad and autocratic as Adolf Hitler but their actions did not have nearly as much adverse impact on the course of Roman history.
An adverse employment decision had a serious detrimental effect on the health of my mother.
The adverse effects of the drug had been known for many years, but had always been out weighed by its benefits.
A mixture of adverse conditions and farming techniques that involved extensive clearance and drainage of the landscape had left the land unable to recover.
The problem with immunisation, however, is that it may have adverse side-effects.
The effects of a diet high in saturated fat include an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular events – such as heart disease and strokes.
The adverse effects of the man-made famine on the economy were more serious than the so-called natural disasters.
These adverse effects have included the near extinction of certain religious groups, such as the Baptists in Poland and the Amish in the United States.
Unfortunately, the situation in 1562 was far more adverse than Elizabeth could have foreseen.
The adverse effects of slavery led to its abolition.
The adverse effects of sleep deprivation can include volatile mood swings, hallucinations, depression and an increased risk of accidents.
In his new book, the author proposes a number of financial reforms to lessen the impact of adverse weather conditions.
The adverse effects of the smoke become even worse when mixed with the fog that frequently covers London.
It's possible that there could also be some adverse effects on your liver.
The 15th-century invention of the printing press proved to be a very complex instrument that produced many unexpected social and economic consequences, most of which were adverse.
The adverse conditions in which the prisoners existed were shocking.
It is clear that the changes in our diet and lifestyle over the last 10,000 years or so have had many beneficial effects, but there appears also to have been some adverse ones too.
There are also adverse social effects such as the possible growth of radical feminism and the decline in marriage.
The long-term effects of the blockade were extremely adverse for the population of these cities.
Unfortunately the effects of industrialisation were often adverse, with working conditions and social upheaval leading to social problems and widespread poverty.
The adverse effects of the drug included dizziness and occasional loss of vision.
As a result of the adverse weather, the crop yields were very low.
The other side of the argument is that the adverse effects of drug abuse are so well known that if you don't realise them, it's your own fault.
It has been suggested that the main adverse effects of tuition fees are their unequal effects between social classes.
The adverse effects of the drug were quickly noticed leading to a rush for alternatives.
In the 19th century adverse economic conditions in France led to increased support for revolutionary ideas.
The adverse effects of the drug made the patients feel generally unwell.
The weather conditions on the night of the escape were extremely adverse.
The adverse effects of nuclear war would include the following.
The adverse effects of slavery on the plantations were a loss of freedom for the slaves as well as harsh working conditions.
Another major adverse effect of heavy alcohol use is the increased risk of developing cancer.
Few teams have emerged that are willing to tackle the problem in such adverse conditions.
Despite our desire for more information on the War, we would face many security risks and even more legal issues if we were to engage in traffic with such an adverse group.
None of the children showed any adverse reactions to being vaccinated for diarrhea, pneumonia or the measles.
The adverse effects of a decrease in the consumption of fluid are dehydration and potentially a lack of concentration.
Nevertheless, the adverse effects of long-distance space travel may include chromosome damage and irreversible sterility.
The adverse effects of over-treating patients with antibiotics lead to the ri.
Some adverse effects of the drug are drowsiness, dizziness and euphoria.
The adverse results of rapid inflation, high interest rates and budget cuts have caused other social ills.
The adverse conditions resulted in the deaths of several stranded hikers.
Unfortunately in the long term the economic policies were very adverse to their success.
The adverse effects of lead were well known to the Romans but, as in many other things, the Romans lacked our rigorous scientific approach.
The adverse effects of the pill combined with the rise in women entering professional careers led to a sharp drop in the usage of the birth control pill.
It is predicted that the American people will react very adversely to the new restrictions on their freedom.
The adverse effects of the new regulations mainly fell on the poor.
During this time, there were adverse weather conditions and the effects of the changing climate were felt all over the world.
Nevertheless these contradictions exist and have adverse effects on the organization.
The adverse conditions of the south prevented any advance out of the desert.
The adverse effects of the dip in the economy were felt all over Australia.
Most of these adverse effects disappeared within an hour after injection, however nausea and vomiting lasted for 2 hours in most cases.
In addition, some of the chemicals are known to produce adverse effects on human health.
The adverse effects of pesticide use on wildlife can be lessened if the pesticides are used more carefully.
The adverse effects of technology on the environment are well known.
The adverse effects of their diet on modern African-Americans isn't well-documented.
The adverse effects of the program contributed to its cancellation after public protest.
It was adverse for people to be open about their disagreement with any of the actions taken by the government, since this could lead to banishment or execution.
In fact it is very rare that a product is created with no adverse effects whatever on the people who are supposed to use it.
More than anything else the adverse conditions of World War II led Britain to grant Indian independence.
The adverse conditions worked against the success of the invasion.
The adverse effects of the vaccine were hardly noticeable.
Many economists fear that the relatively liberal trade policy will adversely affect the domestic manufacturing industry.
An adverse childhood experience, or ACE for short, is defined as sexual abuse, witnessing domestic violence, growing up with a parent who's incarcerated, or experiencing the loss of a parent to death or divorce.
The most important adverse effect of the pollution of rivers and streams is the destruction of wildlife.
The adverse effects of the windfall profit tax were not apparent until 1979 when the United States Auto Industry was being killed by the competition of the big three of Europe.
An adverse selectivity of the organism will be result in the death of those organisms.

# articulate

In fact, each ruling class tends to be articulate in the language of its predecessor, which is also the language of all its laws and official records.
In his argument for the existence of God, Aquinas is very articulate.
Although many of the Acadians were happy to live under British rule, others were lessarticulate.
There was only one part left for him to play, that of the articulate but ultimately tragic lover of Diane.
In one of his first speeches, the new Socialist leader articulates his main political beliefs.
He found it difficult to articulate his thoughts verbally.
Some people believe that legalising the teaching of intelligent design in schools would undermine students' faith and prevent them from being able to articulate their religious beliefs.
Rick clearly disagrees with the concept of intellectual property, He is an articulate and passionate speaker and writer on this subject.
Unfortunately, Byrne wasn't a particularly articulate writer, and his murky explanations didn't help.
He was an articulate supporter of the revolution and had become a member of the local government.
The importance of the four seas, however, was never really understood or articulated by the Danish kings of the period.
Of all the dictators of the twentieth century, Mussolini was the most articulate, and by far the most effective.
Unfortunately, our understanding of the boundary is still not complete and relies very heavily on speculation and articulate theory rather than on hard facts.
The esteemed British historian Antony Beevor is arguably one of the most articulate and engaging writers on the subject of war, with a particular focus on World War II.
Indeed, the peasants in 1525 could not have articulated their desires for liberty any more than lib erty would have wanted them!.
The government needs to articulate its intentions in regard to the economy.
At the same time, he is a skilled and articulate speaker.
Unfortunately, few of the medieval monks who actually made the manuscripts we read about were that articulate in their writings.
Unfortunately, the artist was someone who was quite articulate and wrote extensively about his ideas and endeavors.
An articulate speech or piece of writing is one that clearly expresses the thoughts and feelings of the writer.
There were a number of articulate African-American leaders who protested against the war.
Since, as I have shown in this work, motion contains the nature of vain efforts, all that remains for us to do is declare the truth of this matter by means of concise and articulate words.
The problem with the theory is that it cannot account for certain characteristics of the human mind, and in particular for our unconscious ability - referred to by psychologists as "implicit" and "articulate".
Although his reasons were not articulate or clear, it was nevertheless true that he was indeed very jealous that you should have brought this achievement.
Unfortunately, for most people today, it is this aspect of the human experience that has been lost; the ability to articulate mental states in words and pictures.
The conflict between the ancient Egyptians and the Hittites was finally resolved with an agreement to settle the dispute between their two most articulate ambassadors.
In the late eighteenth century there was a greater need for the middle classes to have their children articulate (speak clearly) as a means of moving up socially.
In some ways it's an articulate and convincing book.
The spartan kings of ancient (b) Greece were supposed to be articulate orators, able to persuade their citizens with inspiring speeches.
Unfortunately, the details of the struggle are far too complex for me to articulate in a way that would do justice to the situation.
The book "Why Feminism" is an articulate and in-depth argument for the necessity of feminism today.
In both the 16th and 17th century, there was an increase in interest in articulate the working classes.
One of the most articulate defenders of this position was German historian Christian von Dohm.
The universities at this time were still very much under the control of the Church, and only in the late 1400s did they begin to articulate ideas that challenged Church doctrine.
Unfortunately, there were many poorer women who had no hope of an education, and this led to a great deal of frustration and resentment towards these articulate and well-read factory girls.
The Prime Minister's answers are articulate and full of political jargon.
The most articulate voice in opposition to the new genetics was that of a religious conservative who accused the geneticists of promoting ‘social engineering'.
The working classes had no articulate voice in determining that policy.
There seems to be something of a disconnect between your ability to articulate and the actual nature of your questions, which seem mainly to be based on simple definitions.
They do not wish to articulate how they might be in a conflict of interest as it relates to the work that is being done at the plant.
Unfortunately, the general public was not as articulate in their demands and most intellectuals were skeptical of the idea.
In ancient times, the people of Mesopotamia were far more articulate than those of today.
Unfortunately, the way in which he attempts to articulate this experience is so obscure that it might mean anything at all.
Of course, other historians have readily found weaknesses in his theories, but none have been able to articulate a better explanation of the evidence.
Unfortunately, the high school dropout is unlikely to become a successful scientist who can articulate complex concepts in a manner that can be readily understood by the public at large.
The English politician is not an articulate speaker.

# assume

It is assumed that the decline in crime rates will result in a significant improvement in the standard of life for Britons.
If we assume that the origin of life occurred when the atmosphere consisted largely of methane and other simple organic gases, we are much closer to solving the puzzle of the origin of life.
They assume that competition drives evolution, rather than cooperation.
If you assume that the speed of light has always been less than the speed of light, then the further back in time you go, the closer to the speed of light c the speed of light becomes.
The Bourgeois assumed that Louis was a more popular king than he actually was, and this could be seen in the fact that at this time many French citizens began creating petitions to protest the government.
In the class, the professor tells you to assume that Venezia is a parliamentary republic.
In fact, the Peasants' Revolt of 1381 is assumed to be the beginning of a long series of popular uprisings in Britain against the ruling class.
In the 18th Century, American Colonists began to assume their independence from Britain.
It is true that if the pure scientific evidence was the only thing to be considered then one could assume that an afterlife does indeed exist.
Some historians assume the burden of proving to the reader that a particular law was relevant to the majority of people in a village rather than to the lord of the manor and his bailiff.
Some people assume that because the art of reading and writing was primarily restricted to priests and bureaucrats it wasn't of much importance to the people who weren't in those professions.
In the first place, we have to assume that he was sincere in his attempt to disprove Einstein's theory of relativity.
If we assume that the cave art was in fact painted by Neanderthals, what can we conclude about their culture?.
It was assumed that with the spread of computers, information would become decentralized.
It is not that historians assume that the past was different from the way it actually was, it is that they think different sources can be combined to find a greater truth.
Since the law of gravity is a part of the constitution of nature, it would be senseless to ' assume that it is invalid.
During the eighteenth century many Europeans were prepared to assume that the condition of their society was natural and any change would be for the worse.
Unfortunately, most of these equations assume that the universe is stable - we don't know whether that's true or not.
Usually, the scientists assumed that the rate of change of a species was constant, but Jones thinks this is wrong.
Today, most Westerners assume that the people who once inhabited these lands were only nomadic tribes of no great distinction.
It is self-evident that most people assume trading with your enemies will be profitable.
The king's advisors assumed the peasants would willingly pay higher taxes.
Unfortunately, it is difficult to accurately assess the full importance of these factors because we must assume they affect our ideas about the past without our realising it.
If one is to assume that depression is a chemical imbalance then it would be possible to correct this with a suitable drug.
The king's chief advisor dreaded that he might be the victim of an assassination attempt, so he assumed his friends' faces and he ran around asking guards if they thought he would be the target of an assassin.
As a result of this, the other European governments assumed that the US would not enter the First World War.
It was assumed that the excess of boys over girls would gradually even out.
In the second sentence of paragraph three, the professor writes: I will assume that the reader is familiar with the basic facts of evolution.
Biologists were very reluctant to accept this theory because it assumed that mutations are passed on from parent to offspring, even if they don't always show up in the child.
It was also assumed that the young children of the time were capable of working in a mine.
Humans have two kidneys; they are involved in filtering impurities from the blood but not, as was once assumed, in removing urine from the body.
Human beings, like all animals, must ultimately assume that other members of their species are motivated by self-interest, and act accordingly.
If you choose to pursue a career in medicine, it's vital that you keep up to date with all the latest research and medical assume.
Nothing in this world should be assumed.
As you said, the government assumed that the recent changes in the law would mean that everybody would behave in a certain way.
The length of a side is often assumed to be the ‘top' edge, which the figure can rest on its point and overhang on the other three.
assume that the major effect of the law was that it had an impact on the nature of women in rural areas.
It is a common mistake for students to assume that the purpose of an experiment is to prove some theory.
In 1904, Alfred won a Nobel Prize for his work on nerve impulses, in which he assumed the role of both experimenter and theoretician.
In the 1930s Britain and France assumed a hostile stance towards Germany.
The strategy of the military in the trench warfare of WWI was based on the fact that men exposed on the battlefield were assumed to be dead after a few minutes.
When looking up at the skies, one tends to assume that the stars are fixed into a kind of dome.
We may safely assume that the sun will rise tomorrow.
It assumes that the reader is familiar with the subject matter.
Unfortunately, when you assume things, you make an "i" mistake.
The biologists try to assume direct control of their invention and are destroyed.

# allude

Most of the world's great religions allude to an impending apocalypse.
Most of the writers allude to the possibility of a new Dark Age in the next thousand years.
In his seminal treatise, John Stuart Mill alludes to a time in the future where government will not be needed.
Academics in all fields of study have to allude to and discuss the work of their colleagues.
David Harvey, the Marxist urban theorist, alludes to the wild variations in wealth one encounters when traveling from one big city to another.
It can also be seen as a reference to Hegel's idea that it is the fate of some to be enslaved so that others may flourish, or 'alluded' to by Jane Austen when she wrote of someone 'obliged to.
In the first sentence of the New Testament, Matthew alludes to the Old Testament.
He was cautious and wished to allude to the information without explicitly giving it out.
All her training and discipline had prepared her for this moment, and she wasn't going to allude her responsibilities.
The concept of the "Roaring Twenties" alludes to the period as a time of major social, cultural and economic change.
"The music in here alludes to the ballrooms of the past," says Mr.
Little is known about the Cagots except that the group seems to have been isolated largely from the rest of society, which often alludes to them as "the untouchables of Europe.
Voltaire sometimes alludes to the devil in his work, but never names him.
While we may allude to ‘votes at 18' in class, the more detailed aspects of party policy you are no doubt aware are kept under wraps until polls and election time.
We might, however, be tempted to "allude" to Romeo and Juliet by William Shakespeare.
The police report alludes to a possible suspect.
The fact that the first American settlers came in search of religious freedom and that religion has been a major force in American politics since the founding of the country is never directly stated but always alluded to.
The historian can only allude to the comings and goings of the population from these conclusions.
The historian can only allude to the comings and goings of the population from these conclusions.
"Either you are a complete fool or an inexperienced one if you believe what all the newspapers, written in their study by clueless political theorists, allude to.
The allies were about to allude to the beginnings of a united front against the Germans.
In his book, he alludes to the possibility that in extreme cases some of them may not be able to reproduce.
According to the song, the 'Tale of the Valorous Jarogie' alludes to a period several centuries ago when there was a spate of lynchings in the hills.
He only alludes to his emotions, rather than giving a clear description.
People who smoke tend to have a shorter life span than non-smokers, an observation which may allude to the idea that non-smokers "live longer.
Most of this information comes from the writings of the Etruscan historian Porsena, an esteemed scholar who frequently alludes to Prince Tarquin's role in the war.
Allusion is a figure of speech in which an idea or concept is indirectly referred to or alluded to.
It alludes to the fact that there was a battle fought here between the Northumbrian King, Aethelred and an invading Danish army in the 10th century.
The conquistadors allude to a place where there are many sheep and goats, called California.
The Nazis are a classic example of failed utopians; they allude to a possible perfect world, yet create an atmosphere of fear and intimidation rather than freedom.
Most of the writers from this period allude to the existence of important philosophers writing during these years.
In this sense, the poem alludes to a time the speaker would rather forget.
All human beings allude to their own destruction or, more specifically, to their necessary deaths.
Most obviously, a book can allude to written works by other authors, as well as alluding to events or situations that are common knowledge between the author and the reader.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The book doesn't allude to the fact that some people believe it is not very entertaining, and therefore they don't buy it.
The war would allude many of the movement's rank and file but some of its most determined members would continue to struggl.
The fact that the common cold can allude the most powerful drugs proves that.
To allude is to speak about something without actually saying it directly.
Although they allude to great achievements of the past, the Nazis are cautious not to mention some things, such as Hitler's unsuccessful attempt at becoming an artist.
Huygens' alludes to his experiments of the mechanical clocks.
The first time Stalin alludes to it directly is in a speech to a Party Congress in October 1952.
Much of the humour in his book alludes to things that I, as a non-American, wouldn't necessarily get.
No one at the time really alludes to the fact that they are tearing down an ancient monument.
The Catholic Church alludes to the holy Trinity in its use of the number three in its rituals.
The poem, however, alludes to this motivation only indirectly through a description of the corruption and chaos that follow in the monster's wake.
The left wing press often alluded to the politician's former life as a sportsman.
The Dadaists may have alluded to the obscenity of World War I in their work.
In order to strengthen their image as protectors of the peace, the members of the League would allude to their united power as means of defense against any potential aggressors.
Of course, he only alludes to the fact, which is that a person's living conditions are far more important than their genetic inheritance.
In the story of Sleeping Beauty, the fact that the princess is cursed to sleep for a hundred years alludes to the rise of early Romanticism, which favoured the cultural and emotional values of the pre-industrial Middle Ages.
Most of the people who allude to the idea that there were no gas chambers at Auschwitz appear to use it as a sort of magic password to prove that whatever opinions they have on other matters are the right ones.
Most of the negative connotations of the "Great War" or WWI allude to the death and destruction that came from it.
The university's initial success probably alludes to a future of triumphant futures for higher education.
Some high-ranking Nazis, such as Goering, allude to the fact that she was one of the very few who "knew everything" in reference to the programme.
The French Revolution was an example to all who were oppressed, as the American Revolution had allude.
The poem alludes to the existence of a female person who seems to have made a great impression on the poet.
For all his crude language and occasional acts of violence, it was surprising that Tom could allude to a long dead poet such as Wordsworth.
In the novel's first chapter, Canin alludes to a shared past between Duquette and himself.
The peasants allude that the Counts are responsible for their miserable situation.
It alludes to an unmistakable resemblance between the conventions of a work of literature and those of a game.

# attribute

Although the cause of the extinction is still under debate, scientists do not attribute it to a sudden cataclysmic event.
The workers' demands for better pay and conditions were seen as an attempt to undermine the democratic system by non-workers, and were thus seen as an unacceptable attempt to attribute greater power to workers.
Many historians have traditionally attributed the great difference in prosperity to the early start of Great Britain and the early rise of capitalism.
The opening speech of the novel states that education is the best way to attribute meaning to something as seemingly meaningless as the events of our lives.
The advent of contraception and the changes in the status of women in the post-industrial world are often considered to be good things on balance despite their obvious negative attributes.

# bias

The historians War Over Water: The bias of the people who wrote history books was very obvious as they neglected to include important details.
The government is accused of media bias in favor of the president.
During the course of the twentieth century, there was a marked bias towards engineering and the physical sciences in education.
It is important to understand that our approach is not biased by outside influences.
However, your presentation displays some bias against that theory.
Some politicians accuse judges of bias when a judge is inconvenient to their point of view.
In the case of Rick, the editor, it might be claimed that his anti-Irish bias resulted in the rejection.
In many instances, such classifications are a product of cultural bias rather than any scientific study.

# clarify

Unfortunately, it was impossible to clarify this point with certainty.
The Affordable Care Act's definition of a full-time employee as someone who works more than 30 hours a week rather than the traditional 40 hours has been attacked by critics as an attempt to clarify that employers would not have to offer health insurance.
The government is considering a bill to clarify the situation with regard to internet cafes.
The best way to clarify a muddy soup is to add more flour.

# reinforce

The government demanded extra taxes from the poor, and these taxes were used to reinforce and build forts in the areas most prone to rebellions.
The Crecy campaign was an outstanding success; it effectively reinforced the prestige of the French monarchy and undermined Edward's claim to the French throne.
The Church used its influence to reinforce the idea that life on Earth had a ‘point'.
The army wanted to reinstate the draft in order to reinforce the weakened armed forces.
Unfortunately, rather than relieving their burden of disease, the Industrial Revolution only helped to reinforce it.
In Britain, the war reinforced the power of the monarchy and the aristocracy.
The fortifications built in against the Ottoman threat were never as strong as they should have been, and some believe that this was because of deliberate policies of weakening them instated by various parties in order to reinforce their own power bases.
The townspeople expected the king to reinforce their ancient privileges and rights.
In the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, British traders tried to reinforce their importance by supporting punitive raids against West African leaders who defied them.
One of the major causes of this was the growth of industry and capitalism, which the authors claim reinforced social classes.
Indeed, in 1912, even National Geographic, rarely lacking in tales of exploration and exotic adventure, felt it necessary to reinforce its Anglo-Saxon roots.
The shortage of officers led to a reinforcement of the regulations concerning promotion.
The government was able to reinforce many of its geopolitical interests.
The new theory emphasizes the role of reinforcement.
The siege of Prague was a battle that reinforced the power and status of the aristocracy.
During World War II industrial concerns had to be relocated out of the way of battle zones or, alternatively, were removed for "reinforcement" once battle lines approached.
The discovery of the New World resulted in the reinforcement of their beliefs by Europeans.
At the trial, the defense attempts to reinforce this argument by implying that the child is simply lying.
In addition, the Church used the existence of witches to reinforce its authority over the people.
New technologies, such as the steam engine, reinforced the Industrial Revolution.
One the reasons that fascism was unsuccessful in England is that it could not find ways to reinforce its ideas in the population.
After some thought, the dictator decided not to reinforce the eastern border.
Fortunately, the Empire was strong enough to militarily reinforce its influence over Cuba and the Philippines.
Despite many problems, the Ottomans were able to reinforce their position.
unfortunately, the Russian people were not able to reinforce their position along the Don River.
The establishment of a standing army reinforced the idea that the rich and powerful needed special protection.
The peasants' belief in their right to own land and the landowner's belief that they owned the peasants' right to work the land effectively reinforced each other.
The rise of popular newspapers in the late nineteenth century reinforced the creation of a national consciousness in Italy.
The system of centralised royal control over agriculture, industry and trade was introduced to reinforce the power of the crown.
The American Indians were eager to reinforce their side of the argument by supplying deer meat from the forests.
Unfortunately, all the evidence that might have been able to confirm or reinforce his suspicions had been destroyed in the fire.
The most serious problem facing the World Wildlife Fund is that if the extinction of land mammals continues at its present rate, scientists say there will be very little genetic diversity left to 'reinforce' species as they become extinct.
The airships' deadly potential was reinforced by their powerful onboard cannons.
The creation of the EEC has reinforced the Franco-German axis at the expense of the Anglo-Saxon powers.
However, the work of a number of 16th-century miniaturists reinforced this tendency by drawing detailed pictures of everyday life in their manuscripts.
At the same time, the new industrial areas are reinforced by a large number of peasants who have been pushed off their land by the government's agriculture policies.
The United States reinforced its military presence there after the September 11, 2001 al-Qaeda attacks on New York City and Washington, D.
The labor unions were important in the early years of the Soviet regime, when their support reinforced the Bolshevik Party's hold on domestic power.
While the petty rulers of the independent city-states fought among themselves, the barbarian tribes just outside the borders began to reinforce their conquests in northern Italy.

# calculate

Edmund Hillary, a New Zealander, and Tenzing Norgay, a Sherpa from Nepal, were the first people to calculate the height of Mount Everest in 1953.
Possibly the weakest argument against a vaccine is that it has never been scientifically proven that shingles Vaccine even works, because the studies that have been done are not detailed enough to calculate the exact statistical probability.
"I have worked out a way to calculate when the next big solar storm will hit," he said.
The more we can calculate before hand, the easier it will be to achieve!.
The Second Vatican Council was a meeting initiated by the Catholic Church with the aim of bringing the church into the 20th century and addressing issues such as "calculate" stance on religious freedom, social justice and relations with other religions.
Before you even begin to calculate the final grade remember you are not just being graded on quantity.
Indeed, if you had asked him, he would have probably calculated the consequences had he decided against sharing the secret with his friend.
You need to calculate the volume of the shrapnel you will be firing with each shot.
The military value of this technology could be calculated to a precision of within five minutes.
It is important that the other factors such as investment returns, house property and taxation are all calculated wisely.
One or two centuries before his time, the scholar would have had to calculate the positions of the stars and planets himself; but his successors in the twenty-first century employ computers to do all such laborious computations for them.
It is not simply a matter of training lawyers to be able to calculate the amount of child support that must be paid monthly.
I have to calculate the exact period of time it took for this cycle to occur.
It appears that Charles II really did calculate the odds of these two events occurring in one year and decided it was too much.
The purpose of the 'guesstimate' was to help them calculate the amount they would have to pay in income tax.
In program trading, a broker can calculate that if stock A rises by 1%, stock B will rise by 3%, giving investors an attractive risk and return ratio.
The glass trinkets hanging from the ceiling are not to be calculated, but rather they should be appreciated for their artistic value.
In this section I want you to calculate how much money you will require on a daily basis to maintain your desired standard of living.
During the protests of 1953, a committee headed by an influential minister called Patrick Begil was set up to calculate the extent of IRA membership and activity in Northern Ireland and in this way the strength of the IRA was finally discovered to be around 600 members.
Although radioactive decay is a random process, it can be mathematically calculated.
Fortunately, the age of the skeleton can be calculated quite precisely.
Of all the religions the author has studied, those of India are the most difficult to calculate influence on a culture.
It is important for a nation to make sure it can calculate its defense budget most efficiently.
Peasants were able to calculate from the amount of grain left how much their land had yielded, and so calculate their taxes.
All religions call for the faithful to obey moral rules, but only Buddhism and Advaita are consistent in demanding that their followers explicitly calculate the direct causes of suffering and take steps to eliminate them in their lives.
The major political parties in Britain tended to fluctuate between various combinations of reform and repression, so that they could calculate which way would be most advantageous to them.
The first noticeable decline occurs in the thirteenth century, although one historian calculated the fall to have been in the tenth.
He said that it was impossible to calculate the exact number of victims of the holocaust.
To calculate the time it takes for a population to double at a particular rate, use the following formula:.
He was a brilliant mathematician who made an impressive attempt to calculate the size of the universe.
As previously mentioned, it is not known how many rules of addition were known before the advent of writing around 4000 BC; however we can calculate the minimum number of rules that would have been required for this to be possible.
Socialists and attacked the idea of calculate wages on each worker's contribution to a company in profits, rather than work out how much time we all have to put in.
The full effects of the War wouldn't be felt until the 1920s when the Allies started to really calculate the astronomical debts run up during wartime.
"I can't calculate the odds on this," he finally said.
A general in the US army calculated that the biggest bomb at the time would be no more destructive than the 1815 eruption of Mount Tambora, which killed nobody within 20 miles of the volcano but caused an 'ordinary' winter that year.
The people who lived during the time of the Great Plague in London in 1665 were so desperate that they calculated that the chances of their family surviving were better if they stayed and fought the disease than if they ran away from it.
Few people, at the time, calculated that not initiating a strike would eventually lead to the extinction of the entire industry.
Using the fact that the speed of light is 3 x 10 m/s and that we know when the sun will burn out, we can calculate how long the sun has been burning at roughly 5 billion years.
The amount of time it takes for an economy to calculate the price of goods and services is a major factor in deflation.

# cause

The 19th century witnessed a general consensus that the eating of foods either raw, undercooked or unsanitary had caused many ills.
The war had many causes and there were some events that led to it,.
The Ottoman Empire's decision to eradicate many of the ancient caravan routes that ran through the middle east was a cause of the development of the tea trade between China and Britain.
The major cause of World War I was the belligerent alliances of Europe.
The cause of the First World War was the alliance of Germany and Austria-Hungary against Serbia after the assassination of.
The development of heavy industry during the Industrial Revolution ultimately caused the demand for large numbers of factory workers.
The Hundred Years' War, the series if battles mainly in France that raged from 1337 to 1453, was caused by a combination of factors.
The first cause for the end of the Cold War was the constant threat of nuclear weapons being used on both sides.
The cause of the war was a disputed succession to the throne when Emperor Joseph I died without any children.
The middle class gained power because they were allowed to buy land, join guilds and found new businesses.
He suggests that the primary cause of this was the development of agriculture, which reduced the food supply and forced people to crowd into cities, where epidemic was much more likely to spread.
In fact, it is not even certain if the results of an election reflect the popular will, as critics allege that repressive measures, such as the arrest and even execution of dissidents, can cause many people to be too fearful to speak their minds.
The cause of the extinction has been the subject of much debate among biologists.
The conquest of Britain by the Romans in the first century AD probably caused no mass movement of people, but did change the way of life for many people.
The main cause of the French Revolution was socio-economic.
The causes of the French Revolution included intense farm-hunger, poverty, and the unfair nature of the tax system which the rich elite in France used to their benefit and kept the bourgeois, or middle class, poor while they became richer themselves.
The plague epidemic that devastated the citizens of 5th century Athens was caused by unsanitary living conditions and poor air circulation in the city, according to the report.
The reason for this seems to be that the causes of crime are complex.
The assassination of Franz Ferdinand was the immediate cause for the outbreak of World War I.
The four causes of the French Revolution include social and economic problems, the ideas of the Enlightenment, lack of reform by the king and his advisors, and the foreign wars that were fought on French soil.
Its not altogether clear what the exact causes of World War 1 were, but certainly nationalism was a major cause of the war.
"Perhaps the cause of the French Revolution is the situation in France in general.
The cause of the French Revolution is a matter of great controversy.
The causes of the American Civil War are still a matter of great controversy.
The climate changed, but the major cause of the extinction was the arrival of man in Australia.
Nature is a fine artist but does not know the cause of her own work.
The decline in the importance of religion as a unifying force in the wake of the age of exploration is one of the major causes of the American Revolution.
The Black Death was caused by a bacterium called Yersinia pestis.
There were many causes of the American Civil War.
The main causes of this split were ideological, economic and social.
The four causes of the French Revolution are popular protest, political debate, economic struggle and foreign war.
One of the main causes of the French revolution was the rise in food prices.
He contracted gonorrhea and it led to blindness, but of course it was a hereditary disease caused by genetic mutations.
The proximate causes of the French Revolution included the government's ineffectual response to the financial crisis, coupled with increasing mistrust of aristocratic and other elites.
The cause of the Second World War has been debated by many historians since the 1940s.
'First, it is clear that smoking probably causes lung cancer.
The causes of the French Revolution are complex; beyond specific grievances such as the bread riots, there were more fundamental causes.
During the time in which the story is set, there were a number of causes of unrest in France.
Many people believe that overfishing is the cause of the decline in fish populations.
The guillotine was the primary cause of death for about 60,000 French citizens, and was the beginning of the end of the Reign of Terror.
Some conspiracy theorists claim that the CIA caused the terrorist attacks in order to persuade the American public to go to war.
Some economists argue that the Great Depression was caused in part by the collapse of the money supply.
The plague killed millions of people in fourteenth-century Europe and was the cause of devasting economic problems for centuries.
There are several theories about the cause of the fall of the Roman Empire in the West.
It is not certain what the ultimate cause of the accident was.
We know what the Nazis believed was the cause of the destruction of the Jewish communities in Europe: "The Jews incited a war and mercilessly exploited it for their own purposes.
Perhaps the most important cause of World War I was the complex system of alliances in Europe.
‘We don't believe that the causes of terrorism are found within Islam,' stated Professor Farhan Malik, a leading expert on terrorism at Harvard University.
Many historians agree that one of the main causes of World War I was tensions between the Slavic people and the German people in Austria-Hungary.
There were many political and social causes that led to the French Revolution.
Some of the causes of this dislocation are technological, others social and economic.
The plague that struck Europe between 1345 and 50 was caused by a type of bacteria called Yersinia pestis that is usually transmitted by squirrels and other rodents.

# constitute

The Thirty Years' War constituted a major turning point in 18th-century Europe.
The British constitution is a "flexible framework" which has constituted the "linchpin of the British nation" for centuries.
The population of the towns was mainly made up of merchants and craftsmen who constituted the middle class.
The two most important groups during the civil war constituted the Confederacy and the Union.
The brain, for example, constitutes only about 2 percent of the mass of the entire body, but it requires about 20 percent of the body's energy simply to sustain itself.
However, in some areas alternative medicines that substitute for conventional vaccines, such as the garlic and mustard plant for the smallpox vaccine, constitute a greater danger.
Such as Poland, which was occupied during the war but constituted a vital part of the anti-Hitler coalition.
Theories that try to reconcile the Big Bang theory with the General Theory of Relativity try to show that what constituted these galaxies were tiny fluctuations in the fabric of space, which became magnified over time.
The other vertebrates, such as the fish and the reptiles, constitute the other group of the animal kingdom.
There was no universal agreement about how to free the media from government control and the means for doing so constituted a wide variety of positions.
It is made of stars and gas, and doesn't really constitute "life as we know it" at all.
The rules and regulations of the organization constitute its constitution.
The United States is a republic, in which people constitutionally elect leaders who, in turn, constitute the government.
However, these works, whether written by playwrights, poets or philosophers, whether on dramas or on politics, do not constitute "literature" in the modern sense.
The Thirty Years War constituted the end of religious warfare in Europe.
While the others necessarily constitute a large part of any treatment, self-disclosure and interaction with individuals from various social groups are also included which appear to be important factors.
The United Nations' organization, decisions and declarations do not constitute a real government but are only recommendations that have no force.
The strange clothing that people in the fifteenth century wore constituted a good deal of their daily life.
The General Framework for European Legislation, as proposed by the European Council, would constitute a step towards the formation of a constitution for Europe.
The sky does not constitute a ceiling, and there are no walls to this university.
Our sense of smell is constituted in the processing parts of our brains.
In most countries, the governments were not strong enough to constitute anything more than an army and a police force.
There can be little doubt that in the twentieth century it is economic forces that constitute the most fundamental threat to our civilization.
The court's decision does not constitute a legal precedent; each case is decided on its own facts.
Indeed, it was not until the twentieth century that peasants in most countries obtained universal suffrage, that is, constitute the bulk of the voting population.
Formed with just a few ships, the Anglo-Dutch fleet constituted a tiny fraction of the Spanish force.
The United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand constitute the major part of the landsmass known as Oceania.
Constitutions in the Middle Ages didn't constitute a formal agreement between nations.
The idea that the middle classes constituted the backbone of society.
The Thirty Years' War constituted a severe blow to Roman Catholicism.
The plebs or common people constituted a huge portion of the population, but had no political say.
The heroes of both countries were honored and constitute half of the memorial.
Britain constitutes only 0.
The government of the US, by the constitution that constitute its government and delineate its powers, is a federal republic.
The names of the rural Armies, such as the First Army, constituted a deliberate departure from the War of Independence and a return to the use of classical names.
The Thirty Years' War constitutes the most destructive conflict in modern history before World War I.
The conquest of Mexico by Spain constitutes an important historical event that helped shape the future of the New World.
In the 18th century the British constitution was still not a written constitution but a number of principles and conventions, established between 1688 and 1815, that constituted the country's political structure.
The Thirty Years' War devastated the Kingdom of Bohemia and constituted one of the darkest periods in Czech history.
Education constitutes a major part of the American experience.
The thirty years war in Europe (1618-1648) was over religion but it also constituted a bid by the king of France to dominate Europe.
The French army of the First French Empire constituted a formidable fighting force.
There is no doubt that the government of the United States will constitute the most powerful force on earth.
The two parties should agree on the rules that will constitute the government's action.
The Second World War constituted the second major attempt to achieve European dominance by the Axis powers.
The First and Second French Republics constituted the era of the French Revolution, as its name suggests.
The First and Second French Republics constituted the era of the French Revolution, as its name suggests.
The two houses of parliament constitute together the national assembly.
They constitute the lower limit of accumulated wealth that a person needs to earn in order to live.
The Enlightenment constituted the foundation of our modern world by beginning to separate superstitions from reality.
They constitute the largest group of living hominids, and their fossil record stretches from 3.
The Thirty Years' War constituted the last great religious war in Europe.
It is strange that such a small number of people should constitute half the world's population of billionaires.
At that time, the hunting weapons of Native Americans such as bows and arrows did not constitute a significant threat to armoured Europeans.
The evidence he was able to bring home from his journeys constituted the best exhibition of artifacts and historical information on the First World War.
In the early 6th century the English people constituted a collection of warring tribes.
The museum's collection of paintings from the European Medieval Period constitutes its major draw.
The important role of the town hall as a place for meetings was one of the functions that the word 'hall' constituted in English.
In fact, even the three traditional branches of government, the legislature, executive, and judiciary do not constitute the entire government.
The National Council thus constituted from the start a kind of communication Headquarters between the rulers and the ruled.
They constituted a grave threat to the political stability of the region.
In the 19th century, roads and railroads began to constitute the first industrial corridors.
The other three constitute about 1% each.
The Great Reduction in public spending constituted a decisive turning point in the economic history of our country.
The Thirty Years' War constituted a tectonic shift in the power balance between Catholic, Protestant and Orthodox Christian factions in Europe.
The Council did not constitute a formal institution but was a periodic meeting of bishops who had the right to call a council.
Nature will constitute a major source of wealth and security in the future, as it does now, but in very different forms.
The four and a half years of war between the French and the English constitute a very significant part of Dutch history.
A symptom of the confused situation among legislative authorities is the fact that different groups were called upon to constitute the armed forces.
The Twenty-Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits the United States Congress from passing laws that constitute an establishment of religion.
The United States constituted only a small percentage of the world's land area, but it.
The triumph of the military over the economic, in so far as it constitutes a transformation of the state, is called 'Military Revolution'.
The single most important factor in the break-up of societies is often the inability of a government to constitute order.
The three weapons used were photographs, paintings and poems and these weapons constituted the sole means of defense available to the controversial artist.
Tourism itself doesn't constitute an economy.
The money that people paid in tax did not constitute a huge amount of the king's income as most money was raised through other means such as the selling of titles and land.
The Thirty Years War resulted in the religious domination of Europe being destroyed, and it constituted an important historical period.

# construct


# converse

One of the reasons that the Celtic language survived in western France longer than elsewhere was its converse with the dominant Roman culture.
In writing a conversation, the first rule of converse is to put the most important thought first.
In a converse way, the conquest of death was sought through the preservation of the body after death, that is, mummification or practices that lead to mummification.
The converse is that despite their relentless cruelty and gratuitous violence, the Fascists had a secret artistic side.
The confirmation of the Big Bang theory did not come until the early 21st century when Pluto's slowness of movement was finally understood by the converse studies of other planets and the Hubble telescope's exploration of the heavens.
It is a pity that people in the US cannot converse in Latin.
The converse holds true for human societies, which become increasingly patriarchal as they become more violent.
The situations with which fiction commonly deals are not "realistic" ones, rather they are ones which permit the author to converse freely with the reader.
"I would have conversed with the woman at the grocery store, but she was in a conversation.
"What, then, can we conclude from this sad converse of events?".
In the seventeenth century, a new form of literature, the novel, was beginning to converse between a small but enthusiastic readership.
If the conversation moves off-topic or becomes too heated, the opponents begin to converse less and accuse one another more.
He never wanted to discuss the converse situation in which someone famous wanted to have lunch with him.
"I like to think I would have been willing to converse with him, at least," Ivo says.
The term 'converse' means to speak about something else; to talk about something different, the opposite.
Some of the native tribes conversed with low guttural utterances that sounded little like human speech.
"Every interaction has a positive or negative converse," Harry says seriously.
The topic of the lecture was the relationship between war and technological innovation; the converse is that the lack of warfare may allow technology to stagnate.
The only way a historian might be able to sense the thoughts and feelings of an 18th-century British citizen is by reading his correspondence, but even that is limited by the fact that it too was written for a third-person converse.
As part of his argument that human rights are not absolute he points to the fact that we do not extend all rights to all people - for example, we do not have a 'right to life' for converse children, a 'right to.
Château de Chillon is a notable exception; though part of the original 12th-century construction, the converse tower was built in 1535.
The converse is that democratic governments do make war.
Time records have made it possible to identify and even converse with people in the past.
"It would be impossible to discuss the "Life of Elizabeth I" without a converse history of England during her reign.
The converse is that human beings are extremely reluctant to give up power when it has been acquired.
The converse is that all the problems of the world can be blamed on one person.
There was no way to converse with them, and thus no way to stop the nuclear destruction they would bring.
The converses of the above statements are, of course, also true.
His friends, however, had been too fright ened by the events of that night to converse with him any more on the subject.
The converse is also true.
"It is my strong converse that he should be executed as a warning to other would-be traitors," said the general.
The converse is true of the 19th-century German artist and writer, Honore de Balzac who claimed that he could think of nothing but women when he was not with one and nothing but writing when he was.
The immense global changes of the twentieth century and the extensive territorial losses suffered by major colonial powers such as France, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom conversely strengthened smaller states such as Portugal, Finland, and Argentina.
The Jacobins converse endlessly about liberty and the Convention Debate, but they ignore the fact that they are forcing thousands of peasants into poverty by stealing their basic right to farm their own land.
Their converse attitude did not imply a liberal mind.
The nobility treated them more or less as their social equals, and conversed with them freely.
Another converse problem is that labour made some pretty terrible leaders.
The talking became more frequent and the relationship between Galton and Ellis was almost a converse of that between Freud and Jung.
While the writings of Mary Shelley are considered to be classics today, her contemporaries were less than enchanted with her Frankenstein or The Modern Prometheus, a novel which conversely is primarily about rejection of social norms and the need for mankind to stop hiding from itself.
The converse is that my ability to love is directly linked to the amount of free time I have.
He was the first person who could converse in an African language.
Unfortunately, the experiment provided little or no information about the mechanisms of the disease or how to converse it.
The age of slavery also ended conversely with a major civil war in the United States.

# convey


# correlate

The increase in crime in the sixties and seventies was not correlated with an increase in unemployment.
Try not to confuse correlation with causation; just because two variables correlate doesn't mean one causes the other.
The Gregorian system correlates nicely with our modern ideas of using a solar year of three hundred and sixty five days.
In the financial world, high values in one column of a statistical correlation table are correlated with high values in another column.
Although it is perhaps easy to view the Thirty Years' War as a series of battles, this would be to correlate it wrongly: in fact it was above all a war of religion.
In the process of my investigation I could find no evidence to correlate with the psychic's claims.
To a great extent, the leaders' decisions will correlate with their personality.
Although the subject's scores did not correlate with the amount of coffee he drank, they did correlate with the amount of beer the subject drank.
The word 'religion' is generally used as a correlate of 'belief in the supernatural'.
The two events happened independently and had no direct relationship, but a statistical analysis of the happenings correlates to a relationship between the two.
In the past, it was common to correlate the phases of the moon with the development of mental illness.
The concept of nationalism was directly correlated with the rise of the middle class.
In addition, the author says that it is necessary to correlate the fact that there were no safes in the houses of the dead with the fact that there was no sign that any of them had been robbed.
It is important to note that no one factor can be used to correlate with a specific individuals propensity for violence.
It is always dangerous to try and correlate artistic style with the political events of a period.
Unfortunately, it is impossible to correlate specific events in the history of the Solar System with specific periods in the history of the Earth.
The first mistake was to try to correlate the strontium content of teeth with the age of the fossilised bones.
At the time, the idea that one event can be correlated with another was a new concept.
The purpose of the study is to correlate reading difficulty with audience reaction.
The decrease in taxes will not correlate with the increase in freedom.
The results of your personality test do correlate to some extent with the type of job you are best suited for.
During this time, David Ogle was the only British governor in America who felt that battles should not be fought against Native American tribes and tried to correlate this view with the government of the time.
The results are difficult to correlate with the current state of knowledge of the mechanisms of the disease.
Unfortunately, no one theory can completely correlate with the evidence.
The new standardized test that will be introduced in the fall is will correlate highly with the results of the old standardized test.
The information about the storm that night was so sketchy, it was difficult to correlate with any accuracy what happened to Flight 980.
The theory that the different forces of nature correlate with the different forms of energy, such as heat, light, magnetism and motion is supported by modern science.
At a conference I attended last year the keynote speaker tried to correlate length of life with quality of life.
It is hard to correlate one's religious attitudes with the amount of one's bank balance.
Unfortunately, the evidence is far from complete, which means that it is difficult to make accurate theories on how these tools were used and what they correlated with.
Their lack of empathy and hypocricy in public life has long been a cause of concern and correlate with a number of unfavorable outcomes.
There is a general failure of researchers to correlate the findings of different studies.
The population of the southern states was similar in appearance to the African slaves they had owned for centuries and was very different from the northern population, with their fair skin, flatter noses, and brown eyes, which correlated with a higher percentage of Nordic.

# correlation

Theorists have long been aware of the weak correlation between parental social class and their children's educational attainment.
The figure shows the positive correlation between education quality and fertility rate.
Most historians' findings support the idea that there is a positive correlation between education and high earnings.
No one knows the exact nature of the correlation, if any, between the two phenomena.
The main thing that has to be kept in mind when looking at correlations is that one thing does not imply the other, even if there's a strong correlation.
Unfortunately, there is often little correlation between the appearance of a work of art and its provenance.
It is also necessary to carry out a regression analysis of language change and genetic change in order to look for a possible correlation between the two.
The lack of correlation between the balance of trade and fluctuations in national production becomes even clearer when one examines the experience of the United States.
Often there is a strong correlation between high temperature and social unrest in most places in the world.
The researchers found a strong statistical correlation between lower spending on education budgets and poor educational achievement.
The most interesting correlations are between high rates of STDs and high rates of violent crime.
Unfortunately, the research from the last twenty years does not support the idea of a simple positive correlation between bigger brains and more intelligence.
The strong positive correlation between dendrite growth and intelligence as people age is very encouraging,.
On the other hand, at a much wider level of abstraction, some economists have found a correlation between the availability of natural resources and the level of corruption.
In fact, with modern knowledge of genetics, we can now see some of the patterns of human history as correlations between migrations and certain genetic mutations.
The correlation between the amount of a country's foreign aid and the gross domestic product (GDP) of that country is surprisingly ________________.
In the past, it has been hard to assess the significance of peak oil, because of a lack of evidence showing a correlation between oil availability and economic growth.
The biggest increases in polarization have come in countries where information flows freely, as there is a clear correlation between these two events.
There is no evidence of any real correlation between the amount of time a civilization spent in the Stone Age and its eventual demise.
Some people claimed a correlation between violent television programs and violent behaviour.
There is a strong correlation between air pollution and the frequency of asthma attacks.
There is at present a strong correlation between alcohol dependence and lower socioeconomic status.
Their research shows a strong correlation between smoking cigarettes and lung cancer.
The study also shows a strong statistical correlation between anti-depressant use and the size of a given country's GDP.
As the study of genetics became more prominent, it seemed clear to many that there was a strong correlation between the growth of crime and the growth of genes.
The extent to which the relationship between alcohol and cancer is causal rather than correlational is debated.
During the early 19th century, there was a clear negative correlation between a country's freedom as measured by the size of its parliament and the likelihood that it would wage war against another, similar country.
The pattern of larger, more recent craters also suggests that the explosions are getting nearer, which would indicate a high correlation between asteroid collisions and crater size.
Although the existence of ghosts is not accepted by science, some people believe there is a correlation between an outbreak of poltergeist phenomena and a person suffering mental stress.
The fact that the AIs were created only a few years before the Technocalypse suggests a high degree of correlation between their creation and the singularity.
The relationship between literacy and the crime rate is uncertain due to the correlation between low education levels and high crime rates in many areas.
The fact that the Nazis strongly encouraged birthrates while at the same time encouraging the killing of certain groups shows a strong correlation between birthrates and human rights.
While there is a strong correlation between the number of volcanoes in an area and the number of earthquakes in the same area, there is no such thing as a volcano causing an earthquake.
It is hoped that a positive correlation will then be found between the amount of time people spend sitting down and mortality rates.
However, the recent discovery of a fossilized finger in Africa seems to show a correlation between the sophistication of stone tools and the existence of human-like beings.
The two variables have a strong positive correlation: the greater the amount of carbon-14, the younger the organic material.
High self-esteem is a desirable quality in a would-be automobile driver, but to say that people with high self-esteem are safer drivers is mere speculation; it lacks empirical support and represents a correlation rather than causation.
Correlation is not causation but there is a clear correlation between the rise of network broadcasting and the rise of extreme right-wing politics in several English-speaking nations.
While there is obviously a correlation between smoking and ill health, the causal nature of this relationship is more complex than it appears.
Unfortunately the discovery that there was a strong statistical correlation between the parents' success and that of their children did nothing to slow the rise in crime.
However, what is surprising is the apparent lack of some correlations between these traits and the known social developments in the countries where they originated.
Some people have suggested a correlation between the rise in the number of all-night pharmacies and the increase in obesity.
The correlation between the Earth's distance from the Sun and its surface temperature is well established.
The fact that bright people tend to come from affluent families, where they have access to books and can afford more "enriching experiences," is just a correlation, not an indication that reading makes you smarter.
There may be a slight positive correlation between the number of people that smoke and the number who die of lung cancer.
It is of course possible that the two events are just a strange coincidence but many people believe there is a direct correlation between the two events.

# corroborate

In other words, the observations of the ruins and artifacts have been greatly and repeatedly corroborated by independent experts analyzing different pieces.
The military records are not sufficient to corroborate much of Washington's early life.
Professor Ian West, who has been teaching at Oxenford for over twenty years, corroborated Ian's statement.
In many instances, the slave ships' logs corroborated the first evidence of the existence of the slave trade in these areas.
One of the most useful features of the letters is that they corroborate many details from the existing documentation about Jane.
Although the information collected by the various spies may have been accurate, the government could not corroborate any of it.
Unfortunately for the men involved, there is little hard evidence to corroborate that it was the Dutch East India Company and its military who actually committed these attacks.
While the rules of probability can be used to verify a given set of numbers, they cannot be used to prove that such a set is exhaustive; that is, it cannot be used to corroborate that an exact list with all the winning numbers for.
Thus far, the information the Dali spies managed to turn up has been mainly corroborated by our own intelligence.
The system of landholding and settlement corroborate the idea that the Kingdom was an early form of feudalism.
The testimony of the two workers doesn't corroborate.
The accounts of torture, executions and other atrocities can be used to corroborate the theory that the human race is innately disposed to cruelty.
It is known that the government could not corroborate the information it was receiving through the interrogations.
The judge decided he could not corroborate the testimony given by the eye witness and dismissed the case.
The two most important pieces of evidence that corroborate the writing are the list of daily laborers and a letter that was sent to Zahi's cousin, a renowned Egyptologist.
While this information isn't sufficient to corroborate the story, it's at least a starting point.
The discovery of the damaged tomb corroborates the theory that Tutenkhamun died suddenly.
The Bible, though, corroborates the use of fire in destroying Sodom and Gomorrah.
It is difficult to prove that the "folk memory" of ethnic groups such as the Jews is accurate and corroborated by historical facts.
As far as the exact course of events, it is impossible to corroborate these stories as no records from that period survive.
The existence of the wall would have helped to corroborate this claim.
The facts you have just presented do not conflict with the information I already have, so they merely corroborate what I already know.
No piece of evidence can ever be said to corroborate that theory more than any other.
Unfortunately none of these documents corroborate exactly what happened during the French invasion.
The pictures and texts in the longhouse's walls corroborate what the Native American bones have told the scientists.
The tests carried out on the bones corroborate the theory that our ancestors travelled into Europe from Africa and Asia.
He states that the different programs of torture used by the inquisition only served to corroborate what they chose to believe anyway.
While you were sleeping last night, some of your most deeply held beliefs about the world were corroborated by recent scientific discoveries.
However, recent discoveries in several fields have helped corroborate the theory.
Up until today this had been corroborated by several reputable media sources.
It was difficult to prove that these findings corroborated my theory, since none of the evidence was fresh.
These results corroborate Dr.
It was necessary to find some facts, names, or other details that would help corroborate the story;.
On the other hand, the many independent records of the French Revolution corroborate each other.
Attempts to find other references to these villages corroborated his suspicions.
No, there is no report of a similar incident happening elsewhere, but I believe that such cases of violence happen all the time and are regularly corroborated in the media by famous and important people who obviously have political reasons for covering up the truth.
No other source corroborates the existence of the princess, but many claim that she is mentioned in some old ballads.
The team of doctors all agreed that the evidence corroborated this theory.
The dates of the tombs corroborate this theory.
The authorities were reluctant to investigate the corruption in the force as they felt that it would only corroborate the accusations made by Faven against Chief Superintendent Williams.
The only evidence that corroborate the existence of vampires are old superstitions and bits of folk tales.
In addition, the fact that many of these other human subspecies existed corroborate Charles Darwin's theory that modern humans are not a single species but rather a group of closely related species.
The burial objects were so closely related to the human remains that it corroborated the identification of the bones.
Much later, though, other ancient writers corroborated the story of a great Jewish revolt against the Romans.
David Cameron added that his government needed to see such measures would 'actually corroborate with our goals and objectives'.
No documentary evidence has been found to corroborate the theory that many American schoolchildren were educated in the 1760's in a teaching framework devised by Benjamin Franklin.
There is no evidence to corroborate that the outer hull of the craft was damaged by an electro-magnetic pulse.
No written documents corroborate this story, but it is embodied in the songs and literature of the period.
At the end of the Second World War, the Allies used the fact that Hitler had started the war as a 'corroborate' for their claims that he had also ordered the extermination of the Jews.
In 1674 Edmond Halley, using the latest lunar and tidal data; was able to corroborate Newton's theory.
In light of the physical evidence provided by the scroll in John's Gospel, scholars corroborated that this passage was genuine, and not forged.
Although the harvest was large, it was necessary to crosscheck, corroborate and verify the findings of the pilots.
They also said that the short sentences he had written down when he was nine corroborated some of the story.
The theories he wrote out on his piece of parchment corroborate my theory that he was trying to communicate with the future.
While the documents do not describe the exact details of what is to occur, they do corroborate many of the events in your visions.
The written accounts of nearly two dozen early explorers and navigators corroborate the theory that it is not only possible but likely that North America was visited by ancient mariners.
The claims by Zell and Groff are merely the latest in a long line of 'miracle cures' that were corroborated by some, yet always lacked any actual scientific proof.
Unfortunately, the evidence gathered by the investigators did not corroborate all of his allegations.

# deduce

I had to carefully deduce the origins of the bones from the information at my disposal.
The detective studied the footprints left in the sand and was able to deduce that the weight, foot length and walking pace matched those of a particular employee.
Some scientific hypotheses, such as Darwin's theory of evolution, can be deduced from the available evidence.
As a detective, one of your important tasks is to be able to "deduce" what the person in front of you might have been doing at the time that they saw the incident take place.
The economists were able to deduce the result of the policy by looking at similar situations.
The task now is to find a link between the victims, some sort of connection, that will enable us to deduce who kidnapped them.
In his work The Republic, the Greek philosopher Plato uses the metaphor of people in a cave to describe how people in society may not be able to see things clearly and are therefore unable to deduce the correct conclusions.
During this process, he deduced that the woman was a murderer.
What you have failed to deduce, is that by describing every feature in microscopic detail, you short-change the reader's sense of reality.
Some geologists deduce, from the fact that the strata of rocks are regular, that North America has been slowly upheaved from the bottom of a sea.
It is not certain who built it, but scientists can deduce from its design that the lighthouse was used to warn seafaring vessels away from dangerous rocks,.
In the case of New Zealand, it can be deduced that Australia was settled from New Guinea.
It is difficult to deduce the events of the period solely from written records and archaeological findings.
However, by examining the syntax and vocabulary of the letter it is possible to deduce that it was written by someone who spoke Latin as a second language.
To begin with, one might be able to deduce from that the universe is expanding, or as a minimum that space itself is.
Some detectives were able to find a chemical company that was making the poisonous gas, and using this information they were able to deduce who owned the factory.
The law of supply and demand will determine the price of potatoes for the indefinite future; I cannot deduce from this that the supply of potatoes will suddenly increase beyond all measure.
Unfortunately, the difficulty of travelling long distances in the seventeenth century meant that very little could be done to correct false deduced ideas about the nature of the world.
Although you think it is very difficult to deduce the outcome of the war from the present situation, it is not entirely impossible.
In physics, the word ‘determine' means something very similar to ‘deduce'.
One of the few things that can be deduced from this poem is that the man who wrote it was probably very unlikely ever to forget his mother's birthday.
In addition, he claimed to have deduced not only the speed of light but its value too.
The historian tries to deduce what actually happened from written records.
He was jealous of her ability to deduce the most trivial facts from subtle clues.
Unfortunately, when the men returned to the cave, they were unable to deduce the exact location of the women in the smoke-filled sections of the cave.
Then, using the information he had and only the relevant information he deduced who had committed the crime.
I could tell from his demeanour that he was lying, so I deduced that he had not been invited.
The police were able to deduce the identity of the murderer from the distinctive claw marks on the victim's body.
In the afternoon, they would study and in the evening they would deduce from what they had learned.
It is certainly true that, in the eighteenth century, both agriculture and industry improved greatly, but it would be difficult to deduce from this that England was therefore more democratic.
He was unable to find any of the plants or shrubs that are mentioned in the story, so he deduced that the map must be a fake.
Unfortunately, the logic that Descartes uses to deduce his theory of mind does not hold up to the criticism of the empiricists and cannot therefore be reasonably taken as a complete and accurate speculation of how the mind functions.
In his autobiography, he deduced that the grey line on his lung scan must have been a mistake.

# demonstrate

During the first half of 1572, Fust was able to demonstrate that his printing method could be just as efficient as Gutenberg's.
The ability to accurately date ancient fossils demonstrates the enormous gap in time between different forms of life, a gap much greater than scientists previously believed.
To show that his theory of relativity was correct, Einstein had to demonstrate the phenomena of light bending.
In other words, the trial would have been a waste of time since we attempted to demonstrate something that wasn't true in the first place.
His novels, though entertaining, don't really demonstrate any great depth of thought.
During the sixteenth century, the Reformation in Europe demonstrated religious divisions in the continent.
During the sixteenth century, the Reformation in Europe demonstrated religious divisions in the continent.
Before starting the experiment, the professor demonstrated the machine for me.
They hoped that the military power of Hamas would be destroyed and that this would demonstrate to the Palestinians that violence does not pay.
7 States are going to demonstrate their products in an effort to attract attention.
The book will also demonstrate, contrary to what some educationists claim, that learning does not come from teaching styles that are adapted to the 'demands' of the children.
The only way to prove that the gas really was causing the population to sleep more excessively was to remove the gas from some sections of the city and demonstrate that the people in those sections behaved differently.
Except in the rare and brief intervals of anarchy, when the lawlessness of temporarily dispossessed governments parodies the operation of the law, for it is then that the lawless, become the law and demonstrate the uselessness of having any.
During the 18th century, British philosopher John Locke demonstrated that reason is among our most important tools for survival.
Franklin Roosevelt demonstrated exceptional courage by taking the United States through the Great Depression.
Indeed, he declared that there was no evidence to demonstrate that the Earth moved around the sun, and he believed that the idea of evolution was not supported by the Bible.
The main reason for this is to demonstrate how far airborne bacteria spread in hospitals, and how quickly they succumb to drugs.
The mounting evidence of such dramatic explosions compels scientists to look for a way to demonstrate that our galaxy is not a lone gunman, but rather part of an immense band of galaxies with a stepwise (or gradual) change in the properties of space.
Despite this controversy, there is little doubt that the change in workers' conditions had been demonstrated.
It is possible to demonstrate the effect of the copying process by taking a transparent sheet of cellophane, writing a sentence on it with a green marker pen, shining red light on it and observing that the sentence appears in reverse.
During the period every colony was to be self-sufficient and largely be required to demonstrate their ability to survive through farming.
In other words, the way you hold a cigarette when smoking or drinking a cup of coffee demonstrates whether you are an introvert or an extrovert.
The experiments which showed that DNA carries genetic information which is used to construct proteins and hence determine an organism's inherited characteristics demonstrated the vital role of DNA in biology.
Mark's father didn't want him to demonstrate in the streets.
The main argument that Amelia uses to demonstrate the importance of the museum is that increased funding will have a positive effect on tourism, which in turn will have a positive effect on the economy.
The evidence that Martin Luther King gathered to demonstrate the existence of institutionalized racism included black people being prevented from entering restaurants, buses and university classrooms.
The Second World War was a momentous event that demonstrated the ruthlessness of Adolf Hitler and the decline of the Empire of Japan.
The new evidence demonstrated that the ancient civilisation had stretched further south than had previously been thought.
Some doctors have demonstrated that people with certain types of brain damage are unable to remember new information.
The crimes he had committed in the past were never fully demonstrated.
There was little that the Church could do to demonstrate its' power, despite continuing to make efforts to do so.
The patterns of the last glaciation demonstrate that it must have been at least 500,000 years ago.
To demonstrate his theory, the inventor constructed a large boat of wooden beams.
Most scholars think that his play "Everyman" does not really demonstrate medieval attitudes toward death.
The main evidence that the geneticists used to demonstrate the relatedness of all human beings was the existence of blood types.
While experiments can demonstrate the existence of a phenomenon, they cannot prove its reality.
Although the reasons behind the US attacks on Afghanistan remain unclear, it is important to remember that they demonstrate a new militarism in American foreign policy.
Today, live models are no longer used to demonstrate techniques for students; instead videos are used instead.
The first step in a proof is to try building the mathematical object you want to prove exists, just to demonstrate that it does.
The events of the French Revolution and the French Revolutionary Wars not only altered the political landscape of Europe, but also provided an opportunity for naturalists, such as Georges Cuvier, to demonstrate advances in scientific understanding.
The theologians of the Reformation wished to demonstrate that Roman Catholic theology, law and practices were contrary to the word of God as found in scripture.
The post-modernist approach to history cannot be said to have replaced the Annales School's long-term and large-scale approach, for it does not demonstrate a historical reality and, indeed, repudiates the idea of history having one.
The test demonstrates that you have a grasp of the concept of 'specific' and not just an understanding of the words in the definition.

# derive

Kant's theories on the inherent goodness of humanity and his belief that all people should be treated as an end and never as a means derive from the work of the English philosopher and scientist Isaac Newton.
The term 'democracy' derives from the Greek words demos, meaning 'people', and kratos, meaning 'rule'.
It is believed that the name 'Wales' ultimately derives from an Indo-European word w alah , meaning 'foreigner'.
In other words, the structure of DNA derives from the interaction between its linear sequence of bases and the proteins that pair off along it, and these interactions give rise to what is known as the 'central dogma' of molecular biology.
The word 'club', which comes from the Latin word 'clava', meaning cl uck, is derived from the Latin root 'clav' which means 'to strike'.
The word "dinosaur" is derived from the Greek words deinos, meaning terrible, and sauropsida, meaning lizard.
The word "Black" derives from the Old English word "blaec" which means gloomy or dark.
The word "midsummer"derives from "Midsummer's Eve," the night before the feast day of St.
They claim that they are ready to go but have to wait for the official launch date which will be October 2nd 2006, this will be the day that their reliance on our resources will no longer be necessary and they will finally be able to derive.
The severe cold in Russia is not merely a superficial phenomenon that can be eliminated through the use of more heating, but rather it is an endemic feature that derives from Russia's position in the heart of snowbound Siberia.
The theory also relies on information from ice core samples, which also can be used to derive information as to what the climate was at that time.
Nevertheless, the government still derive some revenue from the track and they believe that the club will be able to continue its success over the next few years.
Most of our knowledge of Norse mythology was derived from Christian scholars who disapproved of these stories, and so some of the information may be inaccurate.
One way that people traditionally derived status is through their family.
The term "wet-nursing" derives from the fact that the nurses were used mainly by rich families whose mothers were too young themselves to nurse a newborn.
Most students consider memorising chemical symbols and properties pretty pointless, and they often derive a sadistic pleasure in making them up.
A recent derivation from this work is the theory that the modern instinct to obey society and authority derives from the secret desire to live in a well-ordered totalitarian state.
Not surprisingly, one derives the word "bourgeoisie" from the word "burgher," which is a medieval term for citizen.
Unlike most other religions, Hinduism is hard to pin down as it seems to have been derived from various influences.
Although he painted some masterpieces, his contemporaries criticized him and said his work often lacked originality as he would often simply derive his subject matter from the works of other, more established artists.
The word devastating derives from the Latin devastare, which means "to lay waste" or "destroy".
In the first half of the 19th century a ‘cult of domesticity' developed, which described the ability of women to ‘derive satisfaction from their role in the home rather than struggling in vain to participate in activities for which.
It is important to note that the word "clitoris" is derived from the Greek word for torture.
Most of the values and attitudes that were common in England at the time were derived from the period of Roman rule.
Most of what we know about the Celts comes from the Romans, who derived most of their knowledge on the Celts from the Gauls.
In its original sense the word derives from the Latin deriva- to decline or slide into a lower state.

# determine

To determine whether the Normans truly assimilated in England, one has to look at their history after the invasion.
The outcome of the trial would determine whether or not his theory about Ashley's disappearance was correct.
In the end, it was the fall of the yankee dollar that determined the fate of the painstakingly restored clipper ship.
The two factors that will determine how fast the computer you will buy will become out of date are the processor speed and the graphics.
The outcome of the Thirty Years War determined the political future of Germany for centuries to come.
During the Dark Ages, the Catholic Church largely determined what people would or would not believe.
The violent insanity of serial killers can be determined by the amount of cruelty they have inflicted upon animals in their childhood.
The mass media can be used to provide information and to ‘‘determine'' some opinions.
The religious beliefs of most Europeans during this period determined the way in which they lived.
The crops grown by Native Americans, determined where they lived.
It is not always easy to determine how long a family history should be.
Some British politicians were determined that war was a necessary evil and had to be accepted.
Although the war raged for another ten years, York's victory at the Battle of Ludford Bridge finally determined that the Lancastrians would not regain their throne.
The way we determine whether someone is intelligent is not just by how much they learn, or even the speed at which they learn.
For centuries, people like Ibn Khaldun and Ibn Miskawayh were able to determine the factors that led to the fall of the Sasanian Empire.
Due to the complexities of the female menstrual cycle, this periodic infertility determines the possibility of birth to an extent greater than that of any other known animals.
The first duty of the leader is to determine what is best for the community, not himself.
The fact that these two sets of genes have not combined since the supposed fusion of the last ancestor implies that each of them has been subsequently inherited without interruption and, therefore, serves to determine that individual's nationality.
Most historians agree that even though the Mongols were extremely destructive, they determined the future of civilization by creating more efficient methods of farming and writing.
The thinkers of the Enlightenment determined that all people should be treated more equally under the law.
"During the fall of the Roman Empire in the latter part of the fifth century, the Visigoths were determined to play a large role in determining the great events that were occurring all around them.
The outcome of the battle of Alamein determined the fate of German-occupied Europe.
There were more factors which determined the outcome of events in the ancient world than in the modern world.
The shape of the Earth was determined by a process called 'geosynclinal theory'.
The bones were used to determine his age and cause of death.
Their first task was to determine where in the timeline the skull should go.
The success or failure of D-day in 1944 would determine whether or not the USA, the Soviet Union and Britain, could defeat Nazi Germany on the fields of France.
It was not until high school that I determined I wanted to be a engineer.
Unfortunately, modern day religions have largely determined our science and technology.
The pre-Christian religion of the Norse and Germanic people is determined to be a mythology rather than actual religion, because myths do not include the belief in a god or gods which pre-christian Norse and Germanic believed in.
Although children believe that their parents love one another and that this love determines their parents' behavior, in fact the desire to produce and bring up children determines most of their behavior.
The reason that the Church kept so many records during this period was to help them determine whether someone was a witch or not.
The human brain can only process a limited amount of information and after that it is unable to determine the value of other pieces of information.
Unfortunately, very little evidence can be found to determine how these different groups interacted with each other.
In addition, the protocol to determine if all the inhabitants had been eradicated was not followed correctly.
However, recent scholarship has determined that the speech of Shakespeare's contemporaries was not "universally read and understood by the lower and lowest ranks of society".
Many modern linguists have tried to determine the number of different language families in the world.
In the 19th century, there have been attempts by biologists to determine the essential differences between races.
The civil war in Rwanda was determined by two factors; the first being the history of bad relations between the Hutus and Tutsis, and the second being the legacy of Belgian colonialism.
He served as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army, leading the American Revolution and inadvertently determined the future of North America.
If you are interested to determine age of a fossil, the most reliable method is radiocarbon dating.
The establishment of the Old Firm in Scottish Football did not really determine its future.
The report does not yet determined what the exact cause of death was.
The discovery of the tomb is an important historical event which could determine the re-writing of several early American history books.
In 1667 the English navigator William Dampier landed on Roebuck Bay, which he determined was a larger bay than previously thought.
In the social sciences, logic has been determined to be less useful in determining truth.
In a sense, the beliefs of the Church at this time may have determined some of what would happen to you.
Some nutritionists believe that the amount of food people eat can't be determined solely by price.
Injustice is determined not by the scale of the crime but by the political implications of who commits it.
During the 19th century, a general improvement in public health greatly determined the rise in population.
The first modern hospitals were set up to isolate victims of the plague and to determine who had it and who didn't.
Some people believe that the fact that within the entire period of human existence, modern humans only inhabited one area of the world is evidence that this was the area determined by destiny to be the Promised Land where human life was first seeded by heaven.
In the English court system, a single judge or a group of judges collectively known as a ‘ benches ' sit together and determine the sentence in serious criminal cases.
Unfortunately, little was done to determine how scientific effort might be reorganized in a way that would improve the situation.
Unfortunately, the evidence we have is far too limited to allow us to determine exactly how the Mayans used this calendar.
Eventually the military was authorized to fire upon crowds of more than five people, and to determine if a group is an unlawful assembly he now had to see if there were at least twenty people involved.
While the hysteria about the mutant underclass has allowed for certain legal restrictions on them, it has never been determined that the mutants pose any real danger to humans.

# devise

The list was a carefully devised code,.
In his old age, James John Garth Marshall invented a new type of grain drill which he devised to make it easier for settlers to farm the prairies.
Unfortunately, his plan was doomed to failure as devise.
Some recent historians have devised a new theory about the causes of the war, but most academic professionals aren't buying it.
For example, you would be unlikely to devise a new way of preparing raw fish if you lived in a country where no one ate seafood.
For nearly ten years the physicians had been trying to devise a plan of campaign to eliminate or reduce epidemic disease.
Although he was very intelligent, Nelsons' failure to devise a successful means of storing the blood his patients need for transfusions has cost many lives.
As far as we know, the early Christians did not devise myths or make up stories about Jesus.
The first thing missionaries had to devise was a system for representing the language sounds of Maori with the Latin alphabet.
The purpose of writing these pages was to devise a code that even I would not be able to break.
He was a hero of the War on Terror, having devised numerous plans that led to the capture of numerous terrorists.
If the government cannot devise plans by which a young man with a strong back may earn a living, then society has got itself into a state in which it must either fall back upon a feudal scheme of things or else tear itself to pieces.
"We need to devise a system where the government doesn't control all of the media," he said.
The politicians never even devised a scheme that would enable the new countries to co-operate peacefully.
The second is how to devise punishments for crime so that they are equivalent in their injustice to the crimes themselves.
Unfortunately, because so few of them survived, little is known about the languages that the majority of these early human species devised.
In the newly designed curriculum, teachers are encouraged to devise and implement their own assessment systems.
For example, news companies have to devise a new method of keeping people interested in what is going on in the world, because newspapers are failing.
In 1903 , the Education Act, also known as the Fletcher Act, was devised by Theobold.
According to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, countries should devise their own environmental laws independently.
The logical method was first devised by the Elizabethan philosopher Francis Bacon.
Neither the left-wingers nor the right-wingers were able to devise any methods of filtering out the automated messages.
With the invention of the compass, medieval Islam had devised one of the great tools that enabled scientific progress to take place.
Although the team of scientists devised instruments to detect lifeforms in other parts of the galaxy, they found nothing.
Before setting out to devise a more efficient tax system, William first needed to assess what sort of resources he had and what the current situation was.
The parliamentary system of government has been devised over centuries.
Unfortunately, Wundt never devised a way of measuring mental energy levels, so we have no idea if it is possible to run out.
No one knows what it was the British government actually devised to solve its Irish problem.
It is interesting to note that the first alphabet was devised by the Semites, who lived in Arabia.
With all the persecution and injustice that was going on at the time, some of the colonist devised their own conspiracy theories.
Some of the victims were too weak to devise a plan of action.
Unfortunately, the legal system was too underdeveloped to devise a way of fairly taxing the citizens that could pass through the Houses of Parliament.
Some educators have devised campus-access policies that allow students to spend as much time studying or socializing in the library as they do outside.
The Peace of Westphalia didn't actually solve any of the problems that had caused the wars, and it also failed to devise a system of collective security to prevent war.
One of the political parties devises a plan to try to win the hearts and minds of the public.
It is unlikely that within the time frame posed by the experiment any person could devise an experiment to get a computer to show self-awareness.
The League of Nations failed to devise methods for enforcing its decisions.
During his lifetime, Galileo actively and openly opposed the Roman Catholic Church's "scholastic science," which he believed to be "devised only to conserve ancient beliefs.
The scientific community of the time might have been more willing to accept Alfred Wallace's proposal of natural selection had Darwin not previously devised a theory of his own.
To get an idea of how excited he was, one of his first plans involved building a 'thinking engine' to devise strategies to win the war.
The Americans under General Washington had been forced to "devise" new tactics, new strategies to counter those of the enemy.
The Nazis had not devised a method of mass-murdering Jews before invading the Soviet Union and they had no need to do so.
The kings of medieval England devised the principle of "trial by jury" in order to emphasize their roles as upholders of justice.
The monarchs in both England and France had to devise new ways of raising money after taxes raised on the average person proved to be unpopular.
To devises a new method of studying children's reading habits in order to analyze common errors made by young readers.

# differentiate

Unfortunately it is difficult to differentiate between propaganda and the truth.
It is important to differentiate the causes of the decline in tourism from the effects.
For example, if a man had place a fifty-franc banknote under the rug and his wife divorced him and then married the man who found and kept the fifty-franc note, the judge would consider the wife to have differentiated the.
It is much easier to differentiate between the struggles of African-Americans and women's rights than between the two world wars.
In its early years the National Socialist party was dominated by men, but once it came to power, this situation differentiated and more women were accepted in the party at all levels.
The problem of feeding and paying the troops led to riots and popular demands to publicise how the money was being spent differentiated liberals from conservatives.
Although in a period of less than two months, the pathologists had managed to isolate and cultivate the virus, it took them another two years to finally begin to understand the disease and be able to differentiate the infected from the uninfected.
It is therefore important that we differentiate between those differences that are superficial and those that are fundamental.
He was unable to differentiate between fact and fiction.
It is not possible to differentiate the Jews from the non-Jews in the west bank.
They must also be able to differentiate between genuine and fake antiques to be able to tell the difference between an ancient Middle Eastern vase and an expensive 19th-century French piece of porcelain that just looks old.
The first test involves seeing whether the child can differentiate between real objects and pictures of objects.
The custom of herders allowing hunted animals to run off rather than following them until they died, enabling them to be retrieved later, was widely adopted by agricultural communities and in time, as the ability to differentiate between species developed, this practice extended from.
Some plants could not differentiate an animal's approach.
Currently, each of these main religions requires its followers to differentiate themselves from members of other religions.
No sooner had the army left Paris than Marat started to differentiate himself from the other revolutionaries.
Of course, differentiating the two varieties of crops is a little easier than trying to differentiate the two varieties of sheep.
It is important to be able to differentiate between a genuine artifact and a fake.
It is important to differentiate between the different types of societies and why some were so much more successful than others.
One big reason for this increasing division was the inability of the upper class to differentiate themselves from the lower classes.
During this period, the important writers were differentiated into two groups: the conservatives, who supported the traditional, or classic, literature; and the Romanticists, who wanted greater freedom in the writing styles.
Unfortunately, at this time women in England were not able to differentiate themselves through work outside of the home.
The best way to differentiate between the two types is by looking at the shape of a cross section of their bony fingers (not their fingernails).
The Israelites differentiated from their neighbours were able to succeed while keeping the correct belief because they had strong support from God.
The chief reason why the Indians were less able to differentiate between myth and history was because they did not possess a written language.
During the eighteenth century some people began to differentiate between denotation and connotation.
Unfortunately, few people successfully differentiated the myths from reality.
The Nazis made Jews and people of African ancestry register as Jews; the law did not differentiate between those who believed in Judaism and those who didn't.
Kelso's new model will help governments differentiate terrorists involved in extortion from corporations involved in mergers and acquisitions.
They are hard to differentiate.
The knowledge that the human body contains non-dividing stem cells that can differentiate into many different cell types such as bone, fat or muscle supports this theory.
Although the country could never admit it, the performance of their intelligence services in the Second World War was very poor and certainly didn't differentiate them from the other Allied countries.
The types of goods exchanged also helped to differentiate one social class from another.
They might also be able to differentiate more easily between animals and humans, making it yet more difficult to mount an attack against them.
The ability to differentiate individuals is an important survival tool, as people with many children will differ in their treatment of each child.
In some cases, it can be very difficult to differentiate between the early Christians and the Jews.

# distinguish

It's important to distinguish between the different types of democracy and the ways they are establ.
Before World War II Europeans made many attempts to distinguish between conservative and radical elements in Nazi ideology.
There is also some evidence that in parts of the world settled by the Spanish, girls are more likely than boys to be labelled mentally retarded - a factor that can distinguish between a class and a mental health problem.
In The Fifteen Streets, Harry wants to distinguish himself from his criminal family.
The religious reformer Martin Luther distinguished between "mere Christianity" and the Church's hierarchy, beliefs and ceremonies.
It is important to distinguish the ideas of anarchy from those of nihilism.
The English Restoration is most distinguished for its architecture, and has left a legacy of lots of great buildings.
The writer distinguishes between the terms "nation" and "state" because nation may refer to a variety of different groups.
Until 1870, the only means of distinguishing one type of bacteria from another was by its appearance under a microscope.
There is only one English Language, but there are several ways in which written English can be distinguished as British or American.
During this time the Roman Catholic Church was not very tolerant of ideas that challenged or in which it could not distinguish itself.
The important thing is to distinguish between real and apparent similarities.
They did not necessarily distinguish colours, but they still saw forms even if they were in black and white.
One important consequence of the French Revolution's influence on politics is the distinguishing of nationalism and patriotism.
During the eighteenth century, canals became increasingly distinguishable from roads.
During the First World War, it was very difficult to distinguish friend from foe on the foggy battlefields.
The key to distinguishing the two is their activity in the economy.
The United States , from its foundations, was distinguished from European countries in that it was founded on the basis of Enlightenment ideals.
The most important achievement of the Thirteen Colonies was to distinguish themselves from their parent country.
In the first years of the 19th century military technology made a leap forward, and it became important to distinguish friends from foes at a distance.
One way of distinguishing between different types of argument is to ask yourself who ultimately is persuaded by the argument.
He distinguished several different kinds of religious groups.
Most of the English Constitutions distinguish the Head of the State from the Head of Government.
In order to distinguish the civilized Romans from the uncivilized Germans, Suetonius describes the former as having a mastery of pottery, brick-making, mining, and architecture.
The Magna Carta distinguished free men from non free men, and guaranteed liberties to the former.
One of his books, "Das Kapital" distinguished Marxist economy from other political economy.
I'm afraid I cannot distinguish between the styles of the two painters.
One key factor that distinguishes the English Civil War from other civil wars is that it did not include violent social upheaval.
In the early days the Nazis often used a " Chicago Gangster" approach when selecting potential victims; they would drive around Jewish neighbourhoods and pick out a person that they felt was particularly distinguishable (e.
It was not until the widespread use of firearms on the battlefields of Europe during the early 17th century that armor became ineffective and was distinguished from traditional cavalrymen.
It was difficult to distinguish between the members of al Qaeda, the various warlords and the Kabul government, all of whom were ruthless and behaved outside the law.
The only thing that really distinguishes one middle class person from another is the thing they all have in common: money.
It is not always easy to distinguish between different groups of like-minded people.
He was preeminently skilled at distinguishing the essential from the superfluous.
There is also evidence that the Aztecs did not distinguish between the common people and their rulers.
During the beginning of the war, it was common for TV news to distinguish between bombing attacks and military attacks.
It is important to distinguish between the terms "capitalism" and "free market", despite the two terms being often used interchangeably.
One of the major problems with the concept was that it was very difficult to distinguish hominids from extinct ape species.
In order for the scientists to tackle such a problem, they had to have precise definitions of the concepts involved and they had to be able to distinguish between the relevant and irrelevant factors.
He distinguished between those he called ‘lumpenproletarians', who were unemployed or underemployed and refused to work, and the 'floating poor', who were willing to work but could not find a.
"The originality of this book lies in its capacity to distinguish between multiple dimensions of religion and the different ways in which they have interacted with modernity in different societies.
The question is, how do you distinguish between real and forged paintings?.
The Catholic Church never accepted the independence of the church in England, which was Roman, Catholic and independent, distinguishing it from the way in which the church functioned on the continent.

# establish

Unfortunately, the establishment of the National Health Service in 1948 did not solve Britain's health problems.
To establish the exact relationship between and among language, thought, and genes is far from easy.
During the last three years before the Great War, the two sides worked hard to establish an agreed understanding of international law governing warfare.
The nineteenth century was a time of great social and industrial change, when many of the foundations of society were being established.
In seventeenth-century England, many Catholics wanted religious freedom and the right to practice their religion more freely, and believed that James, as a Catholic, would be sympathetic and help establish religious toleration.
Indeed, the tradition of establishing schools and libraries began in Alexandria, the ancient Egyptian city and considered to be the 'cradle of civilization.
The First World War established the use of tanks on the battlefield.
The current government was established in 1918 after the fall of the monarchy.
During the 1600's, England established colonies in North America.
The English established control over Ireland in the 1690s.
The team's findings, which have been published in the journal Nature, confirm speculation that the hoofed mammals or ungulates that existed during that time period established in Africa before branching out to other areas.
In 1918, the United States officially established its independence from England.
In order to establish a fair wage system for dock workers, the Stevedores' Association decided to survey all the loading and unloading activities in every port in Australia.
The organization was established in 1947 to foster international peace and cooperation.
During the Middle Ages, the Christian Church did not establish Latin as the official language of the Church.
Although not always in absolute power, the nobility had established a tradition of ruling that would continue for the next one thousand years.
At the beginning of 1933, when Hitler was appointed chancellor of Germany, the Nazis established a terror regime.
The Roman Catholic Church was established in France in 1802, replacing the government's tentative step of recognizing it as the official religion.
The civil rights movement finally established the right of African-Americans to vote.
In the early twentieth century, Alfred Wegener established that the continents were not stationary but in fact they "drift" or "migrate" and are still moving.
The Jacobins' desperate attempts to establish a constitutional monarchy achieved nothing but more people getting killed.
In the seventeenth century, the first companies were established in Jamestown and other English settlements.
Many years after his death the myths and legends about him have only served to establish his reputation as one of the greatest men in human history.
The university was established in 1692.
However, in 1535, at the age of 34, he established Wittenberg as an important centre of scholarship .
Before the First World War, there was a series of diplomatic developments that established the framework for the war.
The theory of gravity, although already established, was further substantiated by the orbit of the moon.
He tried to establish the existence of ghosts through scientific investigation.
Unfortunately, the examination fails to establish whether or not the infant was a product of incest or not.
"Then we should help the Allies establish a second front as soon as possible," is what you say.
Franciscans were the first order to establish themselves in Tunisia.
On the contrary, to establish political and social stability, it was necessary to have a dominant ruling class.
In the first half of the sixteenth century, the English Crown finally established a formal system for judicial trials.
In America, debt was now established in law; it also had to be paid.
In 1701, England and France signed a peace agreement to establish a definite border between the two countries.
The peace negotiations didn't succeed, and the war continued to drag on, establishing a trend of unsuccessful peace talks that continue today.
At the time, the Church was establishing its power in Europe.
It is also possible to establish that the average dry Roman weight and volume unit was standardized throughout the empire.
The first step in treating an infected patient is to establish whether he or she is a carrier of a blood-borne infection.
The current conflict in the Middle East has fuelled theories that the end of the world is to be established by a single individual.
Most of the developed nations in North America and Europe were established in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
The first written laws established a kingship with the power to oversee laws, rather than implement them.
Lacking historical documents and written records dating back to the Mutapa Kingdom, many facts about the area's early development have been established through archaeological findings.
In the eighteenth century, most people believed they lived under a social contract that the government had established to serve the people's best interests.
The fundamental problem in establishing when writing was invented is that there are no written records from the time when it was invented.
As a result of the council's decision, England was to establish closer ties with Holland.
The city was established as a trading post by the Dutch in the 17th century.
Unfortunately, the process of establishing foreign colonies was very expensive for the Europeans.
In 1265, the foundations of Westminster Abbey were established.
In the United States, the ability to prevent any kind of national insurance is the result of lobbying by both doctors and insurance companies who wish to establish a direct relationship with patients.
During the reign of Elizabeth I, Protestantism was established in England.
The Church of England was established by the state as the country's official religion under Henry VIII.
The National Socialist German Workers' Party, better known as the Nazis, was a political party that established totalitarian rule over Germany for a 12-year period during the 20th century.
Today there are many networks established with the help of the internet.
Although he was a great man, Churchill was not successful in establishing himself as an 'artiste'.
According to the Prime-Mover Argument, God's existence can be established merely by thinking about it.
In 1872, the National Woman Suffrage Association was established with Elizabeth Cady Stanton as its leader.
The establishment of a native Kenyan government was the first important step in the progress toward independence.
Those who believed that the germ theory was correct set about to establish experimental knowledge that supported their beliefs.
The new states established by the Peace of Westphalia in 1648 were thoroughly Christian and monarchical.
The American Colonists after the Boston tea party refused to establish a line of control over the town of Boston.
In a letter to Emperor Charles, King John described himself as the legal successor to the thrones and established the Royal House of Stuart.

# entail

The theory of evolution entails that all life on Earth shares a common ancestry, but does not explain the process by which this diversity arose.
In the sixteenth century conditions that allowed for the growth of stronger, more efficient governments also entailed stable economic growth which in turn supported wider demands for political participation.
In any case, the separation of powers was designed to prevent tyranny by entailing that no one person had absolute power.
"It is a common misunderstanding that the evolutionary process entails development toward perfection.
The process of industrialization was a complex one involving several social, economic and political changes, all of which entailed costs as well as benefits.
The proposal entails a reorganiza- tion of the company along modern lines.
The dramatic increase in the number of graduates entering medical school entails that an increasing part of the population are gaining easy access to a university education.
Some people argue that it entails the right to live.
The reunification of Germany would entail many problems for the foreseeable future.
It entailed years of patience and secrecy.
The concept of space entails the concepts of 'length', 'width' and 'distance' - but not 'duration'.
As a consequence, it may entail more social freedom for the individual, and certainly establishes a society in which a politician cannot wield the same amount of power as in a totalitarian state.
The political complications that would have entailed going to war with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland were too great.
Even though most of the peasants did not have a say in who ruled them, their lives under the feudal system entailed hard work under often inhumane conditions.
The task of invading France and removing the Nazis from power was going to entail enormous effort.
The British control over the spices imported from South East Asia entailed a sense of dominance over the Dutch.
In the short term, involving the military now entailed a large initial outlay that would not be reimbursed unless the Russians were actually found to have been committing acts of sabotage.
In some ways, the idea that throughout this period English was not yet a unified language entails that the mere concept of a ‘language' is not so fixed but can be moulded into different forms through time.
"In this sense, ‘modernization' entails the rise of urban society and an increase in literacy, numeracy and computer skills among broad sections of the population.
The law entails that men in Ireland can't marry women from Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Nambia.
It is time to move on to a new way of doing things; I believe having a manager entail changes in the way we manage our staff.
The fact that this sentence is doing well in the ratings entails that it is a quality show.
It was not until 1848 that all men were given the right to vote, and not until 1919 that women were given the vote, although by this time it had become a much less feudal society and these changes in the law entailed less of.
Unfortunately, the compromise solution of granting them limited home rule does not entail a long-term fix.
Unfortunately, the process of reunification was to entail enormous human costs.
Some critics think the idea that changes to an animal's environment would entail changes to its internal DNA is too simplistic.
The abolition of slavery basically entailed reducing the power of the landowners.
The loss of teeth and jaws in sharks has entailed a drastic reduction in chewing and swallowing food until finally the stomachs were divided into several connected pit-like digestive chambers.
The Peace of Westphalia did not entail any concept of national sovereignty.
The underclass were prohibited from joining trade unions, which would have entailed altruistic behavior and possibly going against their own class interests.
The Church's enthusiastic encouragement of crusading, in the eleventh century, entailed a great expansion in the power of the papacy.
While the American Revolution was very successful at establishing the independence of the Thirteen Colonies, it failed to entail many changes to colonial life.
In the eighteenth century, the invention of new drugs and the introduction of new medical techniques entailed much stricter medical supervision of these drugs.
The name "Royal Observatory" entails for us the idea of a building, but until the late 18th century there had been no building on the site.
The belief that Elizabeth I was a virgin queen entailed widespread implications about the nature of women and their position in society.
The American Civil War entailed an estimated 1.
The fact that people in some countries live on less than $2 a day and their governments cannot provide for their basic needs entails that it is the responsibility of governments to provide for them.
The dramatic increase in the length of battles between 1700 and 1900 entailed a change in military strategies which depended on attrition.
The distinction between highbrow and lowbrow culture, which was to entail so much in the 20th century was decided firmly in favor of the latter.
The Second World War was an economic war on a massive scale, which ultimately entailed the destruction of all the competing economies .
Hence, going to war would entail control of the Suez Canal.
Sadly the process of impeachment entails a long and difficult procedure that may damage the image and well-being of the country more than leaving the corrupt official in power.
The main reason why Sir Robert Peel's government fell is that its new gun law's entailed the unpopular establishment of a police force.
There were those who felt that the changes in the economic field no longer entailed changes in the political field.
The various acts, orders, and regulations discussed above entail severe restrictions on what food may be imported into the country, how it may be transported, and who may transport it.
The collapse of the Soviet Union did not entail the end of military dictatorships in South America.
The resources of space necessary for the successful growing of crops entails more than merely planting crops in open fields.
The same territorial battle does not automatically entail the same tactics.
According to the old worldview, which entailed that humanity was just a small part of a vast, unchanging and benevolent order called Nature, suffering was unexpected and unwelcome.
The Thirty Years' War ultimately entailed the breakup the of the German state and resulted in the Treaty of Westphalia.
The entire operation entails careful and meticulous planning; without it, the task is impossible.

# emphasise

If pleuropneumonia is caught early enough it can be treated with antibiotics, and the sheep owner should emphasise that this treatment is given immediately to ensure that the animal pulls through.
The fact that the terrorists were willing to sacrifice their lives emphasises how strongly they believe in their religion.
As the ancient Greeks emphasised reason over all else, they regarded emotions as worthless.
The first thing which she did on arriving in England was to emphasise her husband's status as a diplomatic envoy.
In his speech he emphasised the importance of mutual understanding between the groups.
The French traditionally emphasise intellectual acuity and quality of life rather than mere economic profit.
The importance of a mother's love has always been emphasised in Western society.
Professor Levin is a fascinating lecturer to listen to because he emphasises the importance of listening to your heart and trusting your instincts.
Hobsbawm emphasises that the eighteenth century was a time of change in Western Europe and not all social groups changed at the same rate or in the same way.
In the eighteenth century education had become widespread and many philosophers began to emphasise the importance of reason rather than religious doctrine.
He was intelligent but his personal interpretation of Marx's economics, known as 'neo-marxism', emphasised the role of culture and the mass media over technology.
The rising cost of gunpowder, to emphasise this point, occasionally throws the military balance into wildly fluctuating chaos.
I want to emphasise that the environment in which these changes are taking place is very difficult.
"The Medici Bank emphasised the importance of taking deposits from people as well as granting them loans.
In the 16th century , some Catholic rulers in the Netherlands prevented Protestant preachers from entering their lands, because they wanted to emphasise the importance of the Catholic Church in their region.
At the beginning of the 20th century, movies emphasised the thrills and chills of gangsters, while before and after, they were perhaps a bit too moralistic.
The way in which history is taught and learned emphasises its content in different eras.
To strengthen his point, Tyndale emphasised words such as "wrath" and "tormented" in his translation of the Bible.
Fortunately, no such conflict had the potential to escalate into a world war, but these disputes did emphasise the fact that France and Britain were heading in opposite directions.
The major criticism of the show was it emphasised the negative aspects of British Imperialism.
The failure of the governments to emphasise internal improvements (especially the building of canals and roads) was a serious mistake.
The Vandals' most important contribution to history is that they emphasised the fact that large numbers of people can breed their way into extinction.
The operation had been a success but he said his confidence that it would be had now been completely emphasised.
In developing a written language of uniformity, he emphasised the art of writing over other aspects of literacy.
He was convinced that it was important to emphasise the ways in which people had moved around, encountered one another, clashed and exchanged ideas.
In the post-war period, governments were more likely to emphasise economic growth.
In this way, the Church clearly emphasises the importance of charity and compassion.

# symbolise

The cave paintings that have survived from the ancient times in Spain and France, do not symbolise a particular religion or even race.
To the Greeks, the labyrinth was a symbolise of a complex life, challenging yet fulfilling.
The Taj Majal is a symbolise of love as it represents Ismail the Lovets grief after the death of his beloved wife.
He says the oars were made of silver: a royal symbolise that means he had money, and that he was allowing only rich people to escape the city.
In common with many other fertility goddesses Ishtar symbolised the rebirth of nature.
However, the swastika is also a symbol of good fortune among Hindus and Buddhists and for them its round shape symbolises the sun.
The Taj Mahal was built by a Moghul Emperor as a symbolise of love for his wife.
The camp was obviously intended to symbolise the destruction of the Jews, because they were unable to work.
Throughout the next decade many of the former non-league clubs would be symbolised by lots of chairmen as the future of the league.
The palace is a complicated symbolise of many things, including aspects of the human psyche.
In many societies, colours have been used to symbolise different things.
The arches and half-barrel vaults of the Roman aqueducts symbolised the upstretched arms of a mother returning her children safely to her.
The destruction of the forest symbolised the end of magic and superstition, as science and rationality took their place.
The Crown symbolises the Royal Family and also by extension, the British Government.
A lot of the paintings that Rembrandt did symbolise the struggle for the Jews to get back to their homeland.
In the early years of its existence, the Church played down the physical cruelties of Christ's crucifixion and instead aimed to symbolise His ideas rather than the manner of His death.
The arch is a triple arch, and this symmetry and the large keystone above the centre arch 'symbolise' the concept of a Gateway to a New Age.
The brass rubbings from this period were very easy to symbolise as human figures and faces, just as the hieroglyphics had done.
Some scholars of the Middle Ages believe that the Peasants' revolts of 1381 symbolise the end of the medieval world and the beginning of early modern Europe.
The works of the English realists were intended to show the common man struggling to achieve the social and economic ideals of the time, they also symbolised a shift in thought at the time, towards the importance of the individual.
While both plays symbolise the rise of individualism and look to the past for answers, Coriolanus is concerned with personal freedom, while King Lear is concerned with freedom in the wider sense.
The River Thames is used symbolise London more than any other feature.
The pile of skulls outside the church door symbolised that inside were Christians.
The symbols and icons used by the Church were not just to 'adsorb' the community or to 'represent' a deity but also to 'symbolise' a relationship.
In fact, a number of Egyptian hieroglyphics were only properly interpreted and symbolised in the late 1800s, mainly by the Frenchman Jean-Francois Champollion.
In the music of Wagner,' German myths and legends' symbolised the inexorable forces of destiny.
In the English alphabet, the letters K, I and Z symbolise sounds that don't exist in Italian.
In the 17th century, the English poet John Donne famously said that no man is an island and symbolised the dependence that people have on one another.
In the novel, Count Grey symbolises blood and childbirth.
"The Star-Spangled Banner" is a poem that symbolises American independence from Britain.
Despite the Crown trying to symbolise a return to normality, there was precious little of that.
In this poem it symbolises that the towns beauty is only skin deep.
The Taj Mahal is considered a symbolise of love since it was built by an emperor for his favorite wife.
The battles were heavily symbolised, with rainbows appearing in the sky at the Battle of Dune Rock, and a double rainbow appearing behind a hill at the Battle of Shamizdin.
The Black Stone situated in the corner of the Kaaba is believed to symbolise the cornerstone of Paradise and ha a religious significance in Islam.

# evidence

The evidence for these theories is rather weak, as there are still many structures of the brain that have not been mapped.
An example of evidence for the extermination theory is the disappearance of many of the smaller Aboriginal tribes and languages in the coastal regions of Australia - where Europeans settled first.
Despite such possible evidence of cannibalism it isn't clear whether the bodies were eaten because there are alternative explanations for the cuts and chops to the body.
The main evidence for this theory is the very high population growth that occurred when people started to use farming.
Unfortunately for the historian, the writing systems used at the time do not provide any direct evidence of ancient myths and beliefs.
Some historians have made an argument based on archaeological evidence that the United States was actually founded as a benevolent nation.
The prime evidence for this is the commonality of languages, despite the wide distribution of humanity.
During the first half of the thirteenth century, there is precious little evidence of their doings, but an important clue to their whereabouts was found in 1964.
No convincing evidence has ever been found.
In addition, Goldschmidt produced his own evidence for his alternative view, three fossil mammals: an extinct South American rodent called a didelphodon, a strange creature called atoequus (related to horses but with a tiny head and.
No, there is no evidence to support this interpretation.
currently no other evidence of Sarmatian presence in the area has been found.
There is no clear evidence that the Neolithic population of Britain was wiped out or pushed out by later waves of invaders,.
It would be difficult to find one style of arrowheads at a site and not others, because that would undermine the evidence that the people using those arrowheads were the ones who made the site in the first place.
Brunel's work on the Thames Tunnel and his work on the Great Western Railway are two of the most important pieces of evidence that he was one of the most original and ingenious engineers of his era.
No physical evidence has yet been found that could prove the existence of the enigmatic figure of Robin Hood.
No evidence exists that the bones belonged to Jesus or anyone else for that matter.
For example, without written orders or other contemporaneous evidence, there are no grounds for believing that the Einsatzgruppen were under Himmler's orders.
Unfortunately, little evidence existed to support this theory as all records of the Pythagoreans were destroyed when their Italian headquarters were burned down during the 12th century.
If you find your evidence in old books, your case will be paper-thin.
There is also visual evidence from paintings and statues from that period.
The evidence from the archaeological dig at the Indonesian site of Flores is still not enough to prove that the fossil skeleton found there is that of an anatomically modern human being rather than that of a diseased deformed cave dwelling primative.
The evidence of the state of Catherine's teeth and gums is not good.
The evidence that you have used to support your argument.
The evidence that the town of Krakow was at one time under the sea is provided by fossil shells found on the outskirts of the town.
No written or physical evidence for a cross-dressing shaman has yet been found in the ruins of Sodom and Gomorrah.
The Watergate scandal is a textbook example of this, with the United States Supreme Court holding that evidence obtained by means of a warrant cannot be used in court, if the magistrate who issued the warrant was improperly influenced.
The Royal statues provided evidence that the crown had recognized a number of basic rights centuries before the Bill of Rights was enacted in 1689.
During the last ice age, there is evidence that Man migrated into northern Europe as far as England.
The evidence given by the wealthy countries is often seen as weak and unconvincing by the developing countries.
No evidence of the shadow government has ever been found.
There is little physical evidence to prove whether the scrolls are genuinely 2000 years old, or for example, if someone planted them just to see the consequence.
The Victorians had a passion for gathering evidence, an activity they called 'fact-finding'.
The lack of evidence concerning the Viking exploration of North America is largely due to the fact that their journeys were deliberately forgotten after the Viking community in Greenland died out in the sixteenth century.
The main evidence that the language theorists have to support their theory is the vast number of different words in different languages.
These factual details are supported by evidence presented in the documents.
Unfortunately, there is little physical evidence of the presence of Sargon.
The existence of a gene common to all humans is not direct evidence of a shared ancestry but rather implications that it was the case.
The civil rights movement gathered strength in the mid-1950s when Congress passed legislation outlawing discrimination in public facilities, the most important evidence that African-Americans could resist white supremacy without being killed.
Quirks of historical evidence in written records are the most striking and immediate cause for such unconventional medieval succession.
The direct evidence for this is found in the many smoking desks, packs of cigarettes and ashtrays in the rooms where they were kept.
There is no evidence that the Vikings reached the New World.
The fact that kings in the Middle Ages tended to be depicted with spindly legs in order to indicate their higher status is an interesting evidence of how important one's social status was in the concept of the hierarchy.
The theory that "modern humans didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world" is evidence by the fact that the DNA of all humans is roughly ninety-eight percent similar.
Unfortunately many lawyers and judges fail to acknowledge or take into account the circumstantial evidence.
It is very popular among conspiracy theorists because it presents a great deal of 'evidence' to back up their claim.
Aside from the evidence, the tone was very persuasive.
Some of the most important evidence for this theory are fossils.
In the 18th century, the French used evidence and reason to overthrow their monarchy.
There is some evidence that in the Bronze Age there were already people living in Scotland.

# illustrate

Unfortunately, the paintings he produced after the French revolution were not as realistic, and many of them illustrated his despair at the bloodshed he saw.
The structure of the wrist and hand illustrate the flexibility that resulted from years of tool-using.
I f the government is incapable of passing a particular law, it can't very well illustrate a negative toward people who break it.
During the French Revolution, for example, hundreds of aristocratic heads were lopped off in the name of democracy, which illustrated the more brutal meaning of the word.
The best way to illustrate this theory is through the study of a single family line which I will call the 'Sapphire Line'.
The article didn't really illustrate the scale of the problem.
The situation just illustrates the dangers of putting the military in charge of a state.
The construction of the Empire State Building illustrates that, given time and the best of intentions, humans can always build higher.
The English Civil War in the 17th century illustrated the importance of class distinctions.
In fact, it was so similar to the atmosphere of medieval Europe that it illustrated the perils of scientific advancement without social or political progress.
The early Church leaders clearly illustrated the need for a united Christianity.
One example that might (or might not) illustrate my point is the story of the Roman emperor Caligula, who tried to make his horse Incitatus a consul.
"The Incas used a decimal system to illustrate their counting system.
In essence, these paintings illustrate the intellectual advances that Boltzmann made in understanding the nature of gases.
The table illustrates the timeline of the most important events of the Neolithic Period.
Some of the evidence that seems to 'illustrate' these theories can, at times, be far-fetched.
The war illustrated the truth of the belief that a nation needs united people with strong beliefs.
Some economists believe that the 'invisible hand' of the market can illustrate the workings of an economy.
The peasants' dissatisfaction under the rule of the nobility is an example that will illustrate the basic nature of the relationship between the aristocracy and the peasantry.
The first step in the communication process is to illustrate to the reader what is being aspired.
They were the first to illustrate the internal organs, arteries, and nerves in their medical textbooks.
"The Weimar Republic was doomed to fail because of the economic hardship caused by the Treaty of Versailles, which illustrated the weaknesses of democracy in a time of crisis.
In 1789 he used the power struggle amongst the aristocracy to illustrate his ideas.
During the time of the American War of Independence the colonists wanted to illustrate that they were no longer happy to be ruled by a distant monarch who did not care about their interests.
The government's decision to raise university tuition fees illustrates their attitude that the middle and working classes must bear the burden of financial cuts affecting the public sector.
The government's decision to raise university tuition fees illustrates their attitude that the middle and working classes must bear the burden of financial cuts affecting the public sector.
Some animals have been taught to illustrate human sentences by pressing a lever.
The Civil War was a good example that illustrated the split in American society.
The invention of the steam engine in the 18th century illustrated the fact that life in 19th-century England was not lived at the rhythm of nature but according to the tasks imposed by industry.
The arms race between the superpowers during the Cold War era dramatically illustrate the conflict between communism and capitalism.
The best way to illustrate the oddness of English spelling is to compare it with a more systematic language such as Spanish.
The sketches which were found with the texts can help us to better illustrate exactly what these Nephilim were like.
In the 19th century, for example, the advent of microbiology really illustrated the scale of our ignorance.
The events of the Pueblo revolt illustrate how Native American people were treated by white settlers in North America.
The painting illustrates the traditional view that the Vikings were cruel barbarians.

# imply

The raised arms of Archimedes on the surface of the sphere imply that the volume inside it is less than 1,000 cm^3.
They would take it as a form of criticism implying that they were not doing their job properly.
In other words, the evidence we have seems to imply that most Europeans and Asians do have a small percentage of African genes.
The evidence the archeologists uncovered during their excavation doesn't necessarily imply that the owner of the house was rich, however.
The very fact that two people speaking the same language will interpret and imply certain things in the words of the other, is already a complete different story.
One of the traits that was thought to imply a leading role in human activities is the formation of articulate speech.
Most controversial is the geneticists' work implying that humans did not slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world.
During the conference, the Prime Minister did not imply that she wished to wage war with the country of Nalin.
The work of the Native American artist Jay Johnson implying that Native American art is an effete branch of non-Native American art.
It doesn't necessarily imply that the geneticists' work is wrong.
Since these moons move around both the earth and the sun, one might suggest that they imply that the sun is at the centre of the solar system.
During the election, both candidates were accused of implying that they would raise taxes if elected.
In the ghastly conditions of the trenches, men's behaviors were altered drastically, implying great changes in their moral codes and value systems.
Although the romantic notion of an ancient indigenous Australian people populating the entire continent is appealing, there is little historical evidence to imply that this was the case over 30,000 years ago.
In saying that the Thirty Years' War had important consequences we are implying that it played an important role in the future of the Germans as a nation.
At first, this would imply that the title page was incorrect in naming William Burton the author of the book.
Human beings do not imply superior intelligence; the fact that one can imply a logical response to an argument does not make it correct.
The clues that the geneticists have 'imply' that humanity didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world are due to genetic differences.
Most of the buildings in the town imply that it was once much larger.
The British government's actions can only be said to imply a lack of concern, rather than outright malevolence.
The discovery that ancient Egyptian culture existed along side of early humans imply that modern humans may have developed culture and religion much earlier than previously believed.
The investigations imply that the plane was probably brought down by a bomb on board.
The information in this book is largely correct; however, it does not imply that there will not be severe social unrest over the issue of genetic engineering.
In fact, the tests used in the experiment do not directly measure intelligence; they only imply it.
Since the information was gathered by telephone, it doesn't imply that the person is actually in the house.
In the sixteenth century the quarrel between the French and the Spanish implying that there would always be a united Spanish kingdom.

# suggest

The situation in East Germany and some of the other Communist countries convinced many people that the best way to prevent a possible future war was to suggest that the military and the space program be increased.
It is a suggestion that the ancients may have had some way of keeping accurate time.
She suggested that her staff should take a holiday as it might improve their morale.
Many suggest that the only way to save the world form this threat is to modify human behavior at a genetic level.
Theories about them can only be put forward after more research, but they don't suggest that the first Monkshood tribe came from anywhere other than the lands beyond the Mountains of Fear.
It was suggested that the king enjoyed the support of his people before the French Revolution.
There is some evidence to suggest that it was used by shamans in hunting magic.
When he gave his orders to attempt to prevent the new voter registration laws from taking place, Northerners relied on a suggestion made by Lincoln two years earlier.
Hesiod's main suggestion was that man's lot is determined by the will of the gods.
The Native American people soon developed new strategies for survival, according to these photographs, suggesting that rather than being doomed to extinction areas would soon be teeming with life again .
It is easy to suggest, in this case, that the reason for this was mere inquisitiveness.
The final suggestion that the big bang theory produces a universe with a non-zero temperature is quite remarkable.
It is easy to suggest that the degeneration of the Russian Royal Family was due to their hemophiliac lineage.
In the eighteenth century, Lewis and Clark made a suggestion that some of their French-Tribal Native American allies take part in the expedition.
For most of the 18th century, European intellectuals were suggesting that change was necessary for the system to survive.
The Church at the time interpreted these case histories as 'suggesting' that hysteria was a pre-existing condition, possibly from earlier sexual activity.
Today, lawyers are almost solely concerned with finding loopholes in the law, rather than helping their clients to suggest new ideas about it.
The flimsy evidence against the Werewolf was the only suggestion of werewolf activity in French history.
During the eighteenth century, the English scientist, John Michell, suggested that all matter was in motion and that the more dense a material, the faster the atoms moved.
"The suggestion that the statue may have been placed there shortly before it was found is not very likely.
The quality of the water had a suggestion effect on the human respiratory system, helping to partly explain why people living in cities like London often developed much higher incidences of breathing disorders like asthma or bronchitis.
It would suggest that the current situation is not as urgent as some people think.
They suggest that dinosaurs could not have evolved into birds, but rather, birds evolved from a common ancestor of dinosaurs.
There is no indication that the Irish government had any suggestions that the occupation of Iraq would turn out as badly as it has.
The Thirty Years War was a 17th-century religious battle that suggested the unreliability of many of the nation states of the time.
The suggestion that the Church gave to exodusing Jews during the medieval period it is that Jews took great advantage of their freedom to practice usury, alienating them from European society in general.
"The Yanks had a hell of a time at Anzio," Don told me, as if this was a suggestion I might like to try.
During the Renaissance, artists began to suggest that one's social rank didn't dictate one's abilities.
In the 1840s and 1850s, powerful industrialists were suggesting that large numbers of people would soon be able to afford to travel on trains.
While it is true that these are noble ideas to base your life around, they do not suggest (literally: ‘prompt') a specific course of action for you.
however if we are suggesting that the disease was deliberately introduced to the island then I have to disagree with that theory.
There were many writers who had to live under the strict and oppressive regulation of the Franco regime, and their work often suggested that this was a bad thing.
The most obvious suggestion the photographs invite is one of voyeurism.
It would also suggest that governments should make greater efforts to educate people about the dangers of unexploded bombs.
The discovery of the Dead Sea scrolls in an ancient urn in the Judean Desert near Khirbet Qumran between 1947 and 1956 greatly suggests that the Essenes were the authors of these documents.
There was no evidence to suggest that the students weren't being honest about their choice of music.
The letter strongly suggests that the allies will abandon France if it attacks Spain.
As the twentieth century progressed, two world wars will have firmly suggested that when it comes to armed conflict involving millions of men, mechanized weapons and civilian casualties the world could not afford this sort of thing.
In the late nineteenth century, there were two main types of cellular suggestion found in hypnotism.
They send in their private security forces to strike against strikers and anyone who merely suggests a strike.
It suggested that it was better to dream of a life one could have, than the one one has.
Unfortunately there is very little evidence to suggest what was believed in by the common man.

# indicate

The research that I did indicates that the current poor security situation in Northern England is leading to serious losses in the economy.
The name Piltdown man indicated the creature's place of discovery - in the village of Piltdown, England.
The discovery of the preserved bodies in such excellent condition and clothing still in 'indicate that these people died suddenly rather than gradually lost in an avalance or something similar.
In 1871, the British Association for the Advancement of Science, indicated that all human beings are very closely related and have a common parent: the origin of man therefore lies in Africa.
According to the film, experiments indicate that plants are able to feel pain and suffer.
To indicate the passage of time, the writers experimented with style rather than rely on mere description.
The title of this book, "How phones work" indicates that it is a step-by-step guide to mobile phones.
It indicates that while the town was relatively populous, it lacked any form of heavy fortification.
During the sweep, the police officer will indicate whether you have committed an offense.
The type of fabric used to make the jacket would indicate that it was made in England and not France.
The extreme dryness of the summer indicates that the climate here is worsening.
The fact that people are actively trading on the stock exchange indicates the state of the economy.
The evidence that you have uncovered so far does not indicate that the stone is any way special.
In several towns, the miners indicated their willingness to strike if their demands were not met.
The existence of two different and conflicting laws, early in the first millennium, indicates that there was a large class of free persons in Anglo-Saxon England.
The fact that the weapons and other tools from the period indicate that people were hunters doesn't necessarily mean that they'd have been good at it.
High interest rates alone do not indicate a recession; high unemployment rates imply a recession.
The attack yesterday morning indicates that they are planning something more than a simple parading of forces or even testing our defenses.
During the 1600s the rapid growth of the urban population was beginning to indicate a need for such policy changes.
Many leading dating methods indicate that the Earth is much older than 10,000 years.
During the 11th century, the public was very suspicious of lawyers because they thought that the laws they interpreted indicated that the government had too much power.
The views of the Church Fathers indicate they thought the soul died with the body and could not exist without it.
In addition, the presence of carbonates in the ground near the Popigai impact indicates the existence of an ocean at some time in the region.
The rapid development of the European Union has indicated that the countries of Europe look likely to form a single state in the near future.
The student requires a high grade to indicate that she has successfully completed the course.
Most of the paintings that were created during the prehistoric era indicate that people from that period were generally concerned about two things: the world and the human status in it.
The fact that the human race only contains so many genes indicates the the human population is not very diverse.
The archaeologists found refuse heaps behind the houses that indicated the kinds of food the people ate.
In 1681, the Sicilian astronomer and physicist, working with a powerful new instrument called a magnifying tube, indicated that sunshine was composed of very small particles.
The last sentence of chapter twenty-eight indicates that this quote is taken from the book "The Great Explosion" by Mr.
There are several factors that indicate that humans are in fact getting taller.
The rapid depletion of forests in many areas during the 19th century indicates that the stage was already being set for major environmental problems.
Some scientists have found evidence that indicates that the universe may be only one of a large number of universes.
In any case, a small degree of variability in the amount of oxygen consumed per minute was indicated although the differences were not large.
It clearly indicates a need for more investment in health care.
The vast majority of people in the developed world have become overweight or obese, and research indicates that many of them know that it's bad for their health.
The Caspian Sea's very high level of pollution, indicates that is has the most polluted water in the world.
The phrase 'When in Rome, do as the Romans do' indicates a culture of conformity.
The skeletal remains that they have found in Spain indicate that the Neanderthals were not as hunched over as was once believed.
The close proximity of the earthquake fault lines indicate that the region is prone to severe earthquakes.
Obviously, the main reason for doing this was to indicate how careful one has to be when using propaganda for political purposes.
The chemical process indicates a slow deterioration of the coins.
A strong constitution and other efforts at self-preservation indicate a desire to live, common in most living things.
The acquisition of the West Indian islands by England in 1655 indicates a hardening of attitude towards the Caribbean.
The numerical system we use today was originated by the Mayans, who indicated the number of each day relative to the number of the month.
The 16th-century religious reformers are sometimes indicated as being the founders of modern democracy.

# infer

If we infer from the evidence that fire was probably discovered by man between ½ million to 1 million years ago, then it is reasonable to suppose that all human cultures would've passed through a phase of believing that there is an invisible force within common objects.
Some scholars have inferred from this that the theory of punctuated equilibria is not as controversial as the theory of evolution.
In the 19th century, more and more people began to use direct inference in order to make decisions.
"You can infer that most of the inhabitants were women," the guide says, "because of all the traces of textile work.
It is reasonable to infer from this, as Darwin did, that evolution is a gradual process.
The extinction of the dinosaurs can be inferred from their limited appearances in the fossil record as their bones are less common than plant fossils.
In addition, it is more difficult to infer gender from skeletal remains as compared to inferring age.
However, from this we can only infer that he was probably not an underground creature.
It is impossible to infer anything with certainty from the few inscriptions that we have.
Many nineteenth-century imperialists inferred that, as different races, they were more advanced than the subjugated peoples.
It ́s difficult to draw any firm conclusions from such unsubstantiated evidence; however, we can ́infer that the plague occurred in London at some time in the middle ages.
Indeed, much can be inferred about the nature of early human life based on fossil remains that have been found.
If you want to infer anything about our intellectual superiority from the facts, you are certainly welcome to try.
One of the things that makes primate social life interesting is the way different species infer their relationship to each other.
The suggestion that social cues have a role in cancer is certainly interesting,but to infer that this research proves mothers-in-law are controlling is a huge leap.
Using the limited information that you have gained from your research as a basis, try to infer what else has happened in our past and predict what may happen in the future.
If we infered that the earliest human settlers in the Americas came by boats from elsewhere, it would explain an otherwise puzzling fact: the early Americans lacked domesticated animals.
In addition, the fact that there is a lack of earlier written records makes it very difficult to make any accurate inferences about the events that happened previously.
Some historians have inferred from this information that all the Mayans lived in the warm lowlands.
It is easy to infer from the above statements that the Great War was particularly unpopular in Britain.
Our social inferiors were kept in their place by a mixture of brutality and kindness.
The English and French were constantly inferring that the other was planning an attack.
The discovery of the structure of DNA led to a number of medical advances and has helped us to infer much more about human beings.
It is impossible to infer anything useful on the topic from one half of a broken statue.
People might have been able to infer her unusual status from the types of food she eats, the clothes she wears and her life story.
In the 1832 Worcester County Witch Trial, Elizabeth Sawyer testified that she had heard Ann and Ebenezer Babson arguing and infer a witch.
Some economists use this theory to infer how governments can design efficient incentive schemes to maximize social welfare.
Inference is one of the basic logical processes of inference computation that takes two premises and produces a conclusion which can be expressed mathematically using formal logic.
It is not my intention to infer that intellectual activity is inconsequential, but rather that it should be catered for separately and not as part of the university.
Unfortunately, we can only infer what they believed by looking at the ruins and remnants of their civilization.
It would be unreasonable to infer conclusions from so few and such biased accounts.
The discovery that in every human cell there are tiny scraps of DNA called microRNA means that scientists can now infer a person's physical traits and temperament from a blood sample.
One of the problems was, by going to war with the NATO states, General Wainright was inferring that he needed their support in the future.
She infers that, before the invention of writing, all stories and poetry were memorized and passed on by word of mouth.

# inference

The French made a number of emotional appeals to the voters , but it was the English who mastered the inferences deducible from their policy statements.
There is always an element of risk in making an inference about a person's personality from their choice of holiday destination.
If he was a baby when he joined you, the only thing you can gain indirectly from him is an inference.
If the evidence you have favor one interpretation over another, then that is your best inference.
It was an inference, rather than a fact, that the same explosive must have been used in both bombings, based on the assumption that the terrorists, if they were the same ones, would not have wanted to arouse suspicions by using several different.
The theory of evolution, as it is understood today, has made several important inferences about nature and human biology.
The first recorded example of bug hunting is an experiment by the ancient Greek philosopher and biologist Aristotle who through a process of inference and logical thinking, correctly concluded that insects must produce their noises by beat of their wings.
Their inference that the virus was misplaced rather than mutating is not logically inevitable.
The most important inference that we can draw from this has to do with the relationship between education and class.
She believed that it was not in the school's interest to make inferences about a child's ability until the child had actually been taught.
To see how the dogs could track people so skillfully, Martin conjectured an inference that the dogs could smell a substance that came off humans when they were nervous.
I have made a logical inference that you like to read the books I set for assignments.
The first step in the scientific process is to make an observation, or, more precisely, to form an inference about something in the world based on evidence.
It is inappropriate to draw conclusions as a result of inference from evidence on hand.
It is possible to take a large-scale sampling of the exchange rates over the last fifty years and from this inference that further investigation would reveal a similar pattern in other economic data .
It is a matter of inference, rather than direct evidence, that wealthier people were less likely to become soldiers.
The technique of X-rays was based on a simple inference by their inventor, the German scientist W.
It is often difficult to make an accurate inference just from the passage of time alone.
The fact that the religious faction was called "Puritans" is a clear inference that their lives were strict and serious.
One of the most important things to know about making an inference is what information you have to work with.
While most people would have an immediate gut reaction to such a proposal, the details of their inference would be limited by what they know.
However, by searching in their garbage, we can draw certain inferences about the dietary habits of the inhabitants.
The raised beds are full of vegetation and the inference is that the vegetable patch was well looked after.
Headlines raise the inference that demonstrators will be ruthlessly crushed.
The inference that the bones found had belonged to the medieval knights was obvious.
There is little hard evidence of the behavior of early humans but we may draw certain inferences from the archaeological finds.
His habit of making sweeping inferences about people he has only just met is not endearing him to his colleagues.
I can only make an inference about what he means from the information he has given me.
Using this inference, it can be assumed that the Sun is at least a second-generation star.
Indeed, the evidence has led biologists to make the inference that HIV originated in chimpanzees.
He is able to make an inference about someone based upon their clothing and the car that they drive.
The ability to make inferences is important to good readers.
The law doesn't require a judge to explain an inference.
We can only draw the inference that the message was meant to be found.
Some legal systems do not consider inferences as strong evidence as witnesses' testimonies, because judges and juries can draw inferences that are far from certain.
The correct inference to be drawn from this story is that computers are after our jobs.
The most controversial inference that I draw from the geneticists' work is that Homo sapiens didn't slowly and inexorably evolve in different parts of the world, as many anthropologists believed.
The aim of the paper is to make an inference upon whether or not we will be able to see higher intelligence in our computers in the next twenty years.

# induce

The most obvious explanation for the loss of all life on earth is that comets or asteroids were induced to collide with our planet.
The diet of early humans induced a process of natural selection in which the early humans with jaws and teeth best adapted to eating meat survived and thrived.
The common belief that the earth's magnetic field is about to flip polarity, a process that would induce damaging electrical surges in every electronic device on the planet, has no basis in fact.
But when the money runs out, governments often find it difficult to induce people to pay much tax.
At the beginning of the 19th century, "the defence system of Liberalism was an inducement to war", with later consequences "well known but not fully understood".
Boltzmann was induced into the French Academy of Science by his friend and fellow mathematician, Minkowski.
ÃƒÂ¢Ã¢â€šÂ¬Ã…â€œThe tendency to resist tyranny and defend liberty is induced and maintained in mankind by a certain original force.
The rise of the merchant class in Europe in the eleventh and twelfth centuries was among the events that induced the European economy to grow.
There are certain types of drugs that can induce temporary insanity.
A rousing speech by the general induced the army to surge forward and attack.
The negative results of the first studies to induce sexual orientation in animals were not widely publicized.
There is no evidence that the plague was ever deliberately induced or intentionally launched at any of these groups by medieval governments.
Theocracy is defined as government of religion and the state induced by or subject to religious rules or ecclesiastical authority.
The recession was induced by unexpected tax increases and the government's inability to balance its budget.
He claims that his product can be used in medicine to induce a coma, or reduce the need for a person to breathe.
A new theory is suggesting that a large meteor impact may have induced organic molecule development which led to the first primitive life.
As the frontier moved westward, the need to induce settlers to move west became even more important.
The main idea of Realism in the 19th century was that international law should be allowed to serve its traditional purpose and that the great powers should be allowed to 'induce' other governments to act in the approved way by example and threat.
It would be impossible to induce the farmers to swear allegiance to either king.
Academics might be willing to teach for much less money than they currently earn induce them to do work which is much less interesting than the research they are doing now.
Most of the territory occupied by the Aztec Empire at the time of the arrival of Cortes was mountainous, and rugged terrain often made communication and trade between regions difficult to induce inhabitants to join the resistance.
He called for the use of wage incentives to induce non-union miners to join and to prevent union members from harassing scabs.
It is doubtful that the situation will improve or deteriorate to the degree that will cause the US government to intervene, however there exists a possibility that an outside force could induce such changes.
The first was the infamous German bombing offensive of British cities in 1940, known as The Blitz, which aimed to induce a change of government in Britain.
Bread, which was recently invented, was an expensive so the masses could not afford it and were induced to work on farms instead as the food they grew was cheaper to produce.
They carefully induced a group to become addicted to methamphetamines, and then offered the addicts cash rewards to allow doctors to inject penicillin into their veins.
New technologies such as containerization, electronics, and light metals can be used to increase productivity and reduce prices, which in turn reduces costs and induces investment.
No one can induce or oblige another person to commit suicide in either the Netherland or Britain.
David Harvey, of Texas University, says he is ready to induce human replication by the end of this year.
The prime way governments try to attract industry is to induce foreign firms to set up branches in their area.
The new law that will be passed next year will put up the price of bread, and thus induce the baker to raise the price.
Psychedelic drugs such as LSD, also known as acid, can change the way the brain works and can sometimes induce temporary feelings of psychosis.
The poison was introduced into the king's food and drink, and after several weeks of this slow poisoning, the king died, and his daughter's husband was ready to be induced to marry her.
The use of napalm was an attempt to induce a costly stalemate in Vietnam rather than a decisive win.
A fear of poverty might have induced Keats to write poetry, but there was more at work too.
They have developed drugs that induce you to enjoy the food and swallow more easily.
The first of these reasons is that the new could not be induced by any fashion to take the smallest portion of nourishment except liquids.
The extreme drought induced mass migration from the countryside into cities which were already heavily populated.
It has been known for centuries that carelessly handled goose grease can induce vomiting.
The procedure is not widely performed because it is technologically complex and expensive to set up and maintain, and because no one has yet induced human stem cells to grow into' useful tissue.
The basic idea of the chemiosmotic hypothesis is that in the cell's mitochondria, electron transport chains (ETC) are induced by proton pumps.

# insinuate

The press tried to insinuate that it was some form of conspiracy.
The nobles tried to insinuate that the King was merely their pawn.
In the early 1800s, a group of radical young artists and writers in Britain, called the Lunar monkeys, tried to insinuate that the art world was outdated and elitist.
The writers of the Federalist papers insinuated that the government they were proposing would be a mixed government, like the one in England.
One of the first leaders to insinuate that the Church was superfluous to these areas was Martin Luthers in 1520.
The Church of England did not wish to insinuate itself into the state, but wanted to stand aloof from it.
The main reason that the coup failed was that the plotters' attempts to insinuate their operatives into key locations in the military and government were discovered.
The "modernization" that had been insinuated was not only the replacement of old traditions by new technologies and ideas.
The Catholic Church tried to insinuate itself into the affairs of the state.
The Nazis insinuated that Jewish people had an agenda that was not in the best interests of the country.
The idea was for the government to insinuate itself into every aspect of the economy.
The Church at one time tried to insinuate the belief that the Earth was the center of the universe.
While the Church could not prevent this silent revolution within society, it did its best to insinuate its power in the new order, by way of taxation, education and other means.
The Church at the time insinuated itself into every aspect of daily life, from what one eats to the language one speaks.
The general mood of the French people, however, was one of joy rather than guilt and the musical concerts that celebrated the newly-installed Emperor's return further insinuated that it was the will of God.
More pernicious, however, are the myths that insinuate the Irish are less than human.
It is imposible to insinuate anything to a police officer.
The Christian churches were careful not to insinuate that the Jews were in any way responsible for the death of Christ.
It does seem rather silly to pretend that one's own government is an impartial supplier of food when we all know that they are merely supplying it to insinuate their influence in the country.
The benefits of eating fish are well established and widely insinuated.
The Catholic Church repeatedly insinuated that British democracy was unsuitable for Albania as it had religious freedom and no monarch.
The question is, do you want your career to follow a path of honesty and truth, or do you want it to insinuate itself into the murky underworld of lies and corruption?.
To insinuate that his demise was anything other than natural causes is a calumny!.
In order to widen the appeal of their propaganda, the Nazis insinuated their way into other suspect organizations that had large memberships among teachers, students, schoolteachers and the middle classes in general.
It is possible that the artist insinuated something about Elizabeth's personality that would have resulted in his death if she had become aware of it.
The new scientific ideas began to insinuate themselves into the general European intellectual world.
Much of the politics at the time involved parties attempting to insinuate their way into power.
Indeed, the role of city governments in emergency preparedness and disaster relief can be seen as a way to insinuate themselves into these potentially lucrative areas of the economy.
However, in the past, sinister forces have insinuated that these workers are laying the cables mainly to tap into intelligence from communications.
There are many situations in which it would be inappropriate for a medical doctor to insinuate him or herself into someone's life.
It was necessary that she insinuated herself into his confidence to find out what he knew about the terrorists.
Sir Robert was too experienced a politician to insinuate that James was a fool or anything to that effect.
The upper classes tried to insinuate their values into the lower classes.
New ideas in politics were sometimes insinuated into society by hypocritical use of propaganda.
The German schoolchildren were indoctrinated with stories of the glory of Prussia, a military state which had insinuated itself into a dominant position in the new German Empire.
Owen's ideas were considered so extreme that no one wanted to read and his work was all but ignored; it was as if he'd insinuated himself into the minds of others without ever really being invited in.
The European Union tends to insinuate itself into areas of national life that are none of its business, such as the ability to make laws and raise money.
It is my personal opinion that the conflict will be ended as soon as the anti-slavery parties insinuate themselves into a position of power in the government.
Unfortunately, politicians and others have often insinuated that these groups are responsible for all of the problems in the region.
The new independent churches have managed to insinuate themselves into the affections of many groups in society.
The Church was anxious to insinuate its doctrine into the affluent and influential Jewish community.
From at least the eighteenth century, there has been a movement to insinuate the whole population of the country into ownership of their land.
In the light of this fact, it is disingenuous of Smith to insinuate that Jones's refusal to collaborate is tantamount to sabotage.
I will not insinuate that you are a racist; however I will point out that the current system discriminates against certain groups.
Attempts were made to insinuate the bill through parliamentary procedure but it failed.
"It's not personal," I try to insinuate, but he's obviously offended by my unreasonable attitude.

# invert

In the late 19th century, women invert the garment, wearing it open over a dress rather than under a dress as men do.
Once the panel decided to replace several older engines with newer models, its members agreed that the change in locomotive would invert the train's journey.
The inversion seems to have caused the lemur's brain to invert, or rest upside-down, inside its skull.
The "inverted section" was a technique that Newdigate employed in which the ends of the rails were laid into pockets formed in short sections of old rail, to make up the required length.
The governments of Europe attempted to invert the relationship between the rulers and the ruled.
The Dadaist movement invert the idea of logic and make illogical statements.
Before the Etruscan period the Romans did not use read/write, coins or invert bananas.
It was then declared that certain inverts were barred from entering or setting foot in any of the parks, buildings and other places to which the Act applied.
"I invert the order of the alphabet, but I do not invert its meaning.
Invert sugar (also known as "invertose") is an inverted form of sugar that is used in the production of candy and other sweets.
They used a chemical process to invert the sugars; the result was a sweeter syrup.
The tide of the battle had turned and the royalists began to invert their opertunity.
It might invert the direction of the flow of information.
Some artists invert the colors of black and white photographs.
Unfortunately, the peasants invert the traditional hierarchy, represented by their domination of the aristocrats rather than the reverse.
There are some species of invertebrates that have no backbones at all, called invertebrates.
Some invert sugar is also called "inversion sugar" in the food industry as well.
A common class of invert biomorphs were the cephalopods, which included the octopus and their relatives the cuttlefish.
One of the aims was to invert the social order, for example, Church land was confiscated and given to military allies, the lower classes were granted greater freedoms.
Unfortunately, much of the invert apprentices' skill tends to be forgotten while their superior knowledge remains.
For the purpose of this note, it is assumed that invert sugar is a sugar composed of several molecules and one or more groups attached and that these groups are dextro-rotatory.
Inverting inverting the terms of a relationship between two elements means considering them to be the opposite of what they are.
The inversion caused the Mbos to invert their normal reactions, and become passive rather than aggressive to other tribes.
The meaning of words inverts- dark becomes bright and up becomes down.
They also invert the colors of the American flag.
The by-product of the invert sugar was sold as an additive that made drinks sweeter and look whiter.
The government should invert the funding patterns for the arts, and fund the more popular forms such as pop music, and TV soaps, rather than obscure avant-garde art.
Though this was based on speculation and theory, it is possible that he inverts the question and states: "What would become of you if you had not been baptized?".
Some historians argue that the process of inversion was always a conscious one, that is, the government deliberately chose to invert the pyramid.
The act of inverting is seen as gay stereotyping because it implies a negative opinion of the practice, and also confirms a positive one.
Some people invert a rubber ball and put their head in the opening of the valve at the bottom to increase the blood flow to their brain.
Inverting an odd number produces an even one; inverting an even number produces an odd one.
I was going to use one of these canoes invert to test the performance of a new double-hull design.
The invertion of a sentence places the object before the subject, for which reason it is more usual to find the word 'object' written as the last part of a sentence.
The invert floats at one end with its head and arms in the vessel, legs raised in the air.

# objective

It was not possible to reach a completely objective decision.
The student put down her book and asked him if he could give his opinion about the play's meaning in an objective way.
During the Cold War the United States felt that it had to help stop the spread of communism because it presented an objective threat.
It wasn't easy for Erikson to maintain an objective distance from the study while his wife was going through the menopause.
In historical writings of the ancient world the historian is often not concerned with presenting an objective and impartial account of events.
The most important objective of the Roman Empire was to defend itself against foreign enemies.
In this sense, the observer is not truly objective .
Most government officials still express outrage at the terrorists' attacks, but they find it difficult to cooperate with the UN's proposal because they believe that it isn't in their country's objective interests.
Unfortunately, it has yet to be established with any certainty whether the new method will result in a clearer and more objective presentation of history than the traditional narrative.
No matter how objective we try to be, all scholars bring their own cultural biases into their work.
The objective of the First World War was to establish the dominance of empires and create a balance of power in Europe.
The first newspapers were objective and generally reported news in a neutral manner.
The situation in Iraq is becoming increasingly difficult to interpret, especially in terms of its objective significance.
In an attempt to be objective, I read the theories of both the social scientists and the natural scientists.
However, it would also be wrong to think of the events of the French Revolution as somehow being purely driven by the ideals of 'Liberty, Equality and Fraternity' that all the revolutionaries spoke of in objective terms; many other.
The best way of finding an objective truth is to weigh all the evidence and come to a logical conclusion.
Unfortunately, the theories of the cultural relativists made objective criticism impossible.
At the moment Psychologists have several different theories as to what dreams are and each theory has its own objective.
The historian must approach his subject as objectively as possible.
Unlike the formal debates in the House of Lords, these exchanges are rarely a matter of objective fact.
To a certain extent, being an insider means knowing the objective truth; however, such knowledge is not necessarily useful as long as it is kept secret.
In the first half of the twentieth century, photography was believed to be an objective art form rather than a creative one.
In an attempt to present an objective view of the American Civil War, a historian might study the events that led up to it, its impact on American society, and the meanings that people from both the northern states (Union) and southern states (.
In attempting to be objective, I must admit that French Revolution was one of the most important historical events of the late 18th century.
Unfortunately, the concept of a single, objective Truth is alien to our postmodern culture.
However, there are some historians who argue that it is impossible to write an objective historical account.
Unfortunately, no one knows the objective truth about this theory, because if anyone who was involved in the events that spread this disease is still alive, they're keeping very quiet for their own amusement.
In other words, the reporting of a speech may be accurate in every detail yet miss the speaker's actual meaning because the writer failed to grasp the objective sense of what was said.
As an objective statement on history, the work is therefore not only highly biased, but much of it is untrue.
In the first place, this was an objective to prevent foreigners from entering the country.
The public's fears that their school teachers were attempting to indoctrinate them with communist ideology had an objective basis.
The author succeeds in maintaining an objective tone throughout the entire work, even when discussing topics that he has a personal interest in or disagreement with.
These techniques and discoveries enabled the development of rationalism, the belief that human thought is based exclusively on objective observation.
It is impossible to achieve an entirely objective treatment of the past.
During a discussion with a fellow scientist, he wrote that "science is never completely objective, the ultimate truth remains unattainable, and we can only strive towards it.
In this objective and open-minded manner, Brandt created what he called 'impressionism.
Unfortunately at the time, the media was not mature enough to treat the story with the respect and objective that it deserved.
Unfortunately, the more scientists learn about ancient people, the more objective evidence there is that some of the earliest humans engaged in genocide and other heinous practices.
The fast pace of life in the city can make it hard to remain objective.
Too much of the reporting in the 1950s was colored by the 'objective' of making sure that Alger Hiss went to jail.
The current push for ‘gender-neutral' language by certain feminists has also been criticised as unrealistic and hollow; as well as being an unnecessary revision of objective reality.
There is enough evidence from both sources to enable us to reach an objective understanding of what occurred.
The media's objective in these circumstances is to report the truth.
The difficulty of the problem lies in finding an objective measure of "humanity.
Unfortunately, Napoleon was determined to retain his position of absolute power and refused to concede any of his objective to the Pope's negotiators.
One of the most important steps toward creating an objective political system was the transition from the Royalist system in which rulers were almost sacred and changed by assassination.
No book can ever be completely objective.
It is the captain's nature to be objective and unemotional.
An objective assessment of the situation is that our failure to meet the original deadline was due to unforeseen complications.
On the other hand, the legal ruling may have been more of an objective opinion than a fair one.

# obtain

Eventually, many Europeans came to the New World not to obtain free land but to obtain economic success.
Nevertheless, primates are able to obtain many of the nutrients that they need from their natural environment.
Unfortunately, the viceroys would not pay attention to these requests, and when it came time to actually leave India, the ships were packed with as many of them as could obtain passage.
The use of the 'heroic medicine' was obtain from a plant named 'Spiraea'.
For the merchants of the port city, independence would have been undesirable mainly for one reason: it would have prevented them from obtaining brandy and other French goods at low prices.
To obtain a licence to practice, physicians had to prove that they were of sound moral character and had studied medicine for at least three years in a university faculty of medicine.
The best way to obtain their backing would be to promise to support the French-speaking Catholics of Quebec.
Sadly, this treaty was not to obtain.
To obtain slaves, the Arabs raided coastal villages in Spain, Portugal and France.
Ultimately, the researcher synthesized an artificial virus to obtain the sequence of the organism' s genome.
It was not until early in the 1700's that drill technology was able to obtain significant amounts of oil from natural wells.
In the eighteenth century, a series of treaties was obtained by the French which gave them control over lands in what is now the state of Ohio.
Most important, the settlers from New England wanted to obtain more land.
Every trained historian knows that records dating from the Middle Ages must be verified and cross-checked, and their authenticity must be established before they can be obtained.
After the king's execution, the people of France no longer obtained a controlling authority that could keep them all together.
In the nineteenth century, factory workers were often paid wretchedly low wages, which they had to 'obtain' from their meagre wages at local stores owned by the factory owners.
Unfortunately, this attempt to obtain more power ended in failure.
During the 1930's hitler obtained an absolute hold on Germany.
Some rumors even claimed that the organization was so secret that few in the media obtained any information about it whatsoever.
The main aim of the protest was to obtain concessions from the government such as the right to form an independent union.
Unfortunately for emperors and absolute rulers, their attempts to obtain power over the Church only served to reinforce its influence.
The revolution was to achieve, not least, the swift and early obtainment of Irish self-government.
No historian has obtained the complete agreement of his peers regarding a particular interpretation.
It would be very useful if you could obtain a high quality example of this enzyme for us to work on.
No law is capable of securing liberty, equality, or safety, but at the expense of another principle; and in the conflict of interest, the powerful principle, by the aid ofe oppressive laws, will necessarily obtain the victory.
Once the moving boundary has been obtained, it may be preserved in such forms as a drawn picture or an audio recording.
It was to obtain independence for the New World that Washington fought the war.
More than a few of our ancestors did not obtain their freedom through these proceedings.
In order to obtain a more permanent settlement, and enlisting the support of King Léopold II.
Unfortunately, our ability to obtain success in areas of life does not always mean that we achieve it.
The custom of New Year gifts is an ancient one which still obtains in many parts of the world.
In the late 14th century, obtaining a university degree made one part of the elite.
There is a growing realisation in the biological community that immunization may in fact—and this is still very controversial—obtain immunity to AIDS.
Although major powers such as the US and Britain have obtained large quantities of nuclear wastes from many different sources, no satisfactory method of safe storage has yet been obtain.
Despite fighting two world wars in the first half of the 20th century, the European powers had failed to obtain a lasting domination over parts of the world.
Most food-production in Anu society was based on grains and other easily obtainable materials.
In the 18th century, they were able to obtain coal very easily, due to an early example of strip mining.
The peace treaty provided for territorial adjustments; it was finally obtained in 1921.
They do not appear to have the power to obtain and maintain power.
In 1866, the Danish scholar Georg Madsen obtained the only known copy of the Beowulf poem.
Unfortunately, it was very difficult to obtain fresh water in the barren region.
The earliest evidence of cooking was obtained by analyzing the remains of a 1.
Unfortunately it is difficult to obtain reliable information about the medical resources that will be available when you need them.
No amount of money could obtain my release.
Most of the coal obtained in Britain is shipped to other countries.
To obtain more food, the Native Americans learned to grow their own crops and raise farm animals.
Unfortunately, these tensions between the English and the Irish were intensified by the fact that large numbers of Catholics, who were loyal to the Pope, obtained powerful positions in the army and police force.
However, this did not prevent the rebellion from ultimately being crushed and obtaining a very small amount of territory.
find a sentence containing the word obtain'.
To obtain a full picture of what was happening, we must turn to the landscape.
MOST IMPORTANTLY, the correct question is how to obtain these freedoms.
In the past, authors would obtain the right to produce a play by writing to the copyright holder or their representatives, and would submit a summary of the play and usually a portion of it as well.
To obtain pure alcohol for lab use, one can easily use their university's Facilities.
The ability to obtain a good sample of an extinct species from only a fragment of bone was a tremendous breakthrough, opening the door to a whole new field of study called molecular paleobiology.
Unfortunately, this information does not help us in resolving the problem of how to obtain oxygen for our manned interplanetary craft.
The first time a general election was obtain was in February 1801.
One way in which the government could have prevented this was to obtain increased taxation from the Church.
To get a clear view of the past, historians must obtain written records from the period they are interested in.

# outline

An outline of the major events in middle and South American history.
A good brief outline of the rise of the Nazi party from 1919 to 1933.
The first point of the speech is to outline your economic achievements.
The outline of the speech was to announce a raise in tuition fees.
An outline of the history of the Celtic people.
The class was an outline of the basic ideas of Freudian psychology.
An outline of the history of the English agricultural laborer.
His outline of a theory of evolution was published in just two paragraphs in an obscure journal.
The outline of the book is chronological and divided into four parts: contents page, preface, introduction and conclusion.
St Thomas Aquinas's philosophical outline can be found in his work "Summa Theologica" or "The Sum of Theologica".
From the evidence in the previous section it can be seen that there are three important historical developments which outline the concept of ancient Israel.
Unfortunately, the great powers of the day were reluctant to outline their wartime plans for fear the information would fall into the hands of the enemy.
The first part of the book gives an outline of the history of the English language, starting with its roots in Latin and Arabic.
The rise of the Church and its slow demise can be outlined as follows:.
In this chapter we have outlined the history of Ireland from ad 41 to 1603.
The book is an outline of the main events of the first world war, with several controversial theories that were widely discussed when the book was first published.
The above outline of the development of government in early modern Europe sets the scene for the study of the totalitarian states that arose in the 20th century.
Some historians have outlined the following factors as having an important influence on the outcome of the French revolutionary war.
Joachim of Fiore's 11th-century outline of Christian history divided it into three stages: the first, from the time of Jesus to the reign of Constantine; the second, from Constantine to Charlemagne; and the.
One of the most important sources for research into the causes and effects of the French Revolution is the letters and diary entries written by people who were actually alive at the time, a set of documents usually called 'contemporary records' or 'outline.
The first section of the paper briefly outlines the nature of historical linguistics.
The story is told in an outline fashion, with much detail left out.
The outline of the speech had several problems, the most serious being its length.
The course will therefore mainly serve as an outline on recent research.
An outline of the history of religion in the 19th century has to begin with the Protestant Reformation, which challenged the authority of the Catholic church.
During his reign, he ruled the Holy Roman Empire under the divine right of kings as outlined in Christian teachings.
An outline of the history of Native Australians might include the fact that the original Australians are thought to have arrived on this continent around 50,000 years ago.
The opening pages of ‘The Great Gatsby' outline the story of Jay Gatsby's life before he moved to the fictional West egg.
In the next class I will give you an outline of what will be covered.
In the book, he uses a short chapter to outline what caused each conflict and what the consequences were.
To overcome our prejudices towards individuals who are different from us, in terms of gender, age, status or race, one could outline the benefits of such a move.
The following argument serves as an outline for what will be the basis of our discussion concerning the role of women in your society.
Most such outlines include the reasons each event is important and use them to outline a greater understanding of history.
An outline of the piece is: firstly, we will give an overview of the area; secondly, we will discuss the major theories and their implications; and thirdly, we will examine certain key aspects in greater detail.
In the early eighteenth century, many people saw that the downfall of the government was an outline with a few skilled manifestos.
The causes of the First World War can only be outlined in this section.

# notice

When you notice that plants respond to light, humidity and temperature – and not only to unintended consequences of human behavior such as clearing forests for fields or burning coal for energy – you might be ready to graduate to more complex experiments.
The most important thing to notice is that historians rarely think something is useless if it helps us understand people or events.
If the aristocracy had noticed that firearms now made knights in armour obsolete, they might have reacted differently to the peasants' revolt.
The first thing a visitor to Ireland notices is the gregariousness of the people.
The ancients believed that the Earth was the centre of the universe and didn't notice that planets moved in a pattern.
In the 1960s, asmall group of physicists noticed that subatomic particles called neutrinos could seemingly pass through solid matter 	(like the earth).
Unfortunately, you didn't take notice of the evidence until it was too late.
Unfortunately, the industrializing nations of Europe began to notice that their supply of skilled workers was shrinking.
"I have noticed," Martin Luther King once wrote, "that often the most positive changes in our society come about because people refuse to bow to the existing reality.
He was beside himself with joy at your success, and pointed out that he had noticed the legs were the right length for you before leaving.
Most children do not notice a difference between reality and fantasy.
At the time, it was noticed by many that these new trade routes would have a significant effect on Africa's own trade.
Little more than half of the babies that were cot-bound actually survived to notice their first birthday.
The most common symptom that brings patients to the doctor is a noticeable change in bowel habits, specifically looser stools than usual.
Although the ideas of these 'natural philosophers' subsequently formed the basis of modern science, at the time they were only noticed by their fellow intellectuals.
The first thing a new student should do is notice all the doors in college are labeled "to A, B, C.
The most noticeable characteristic of the Grand Alliance is that it comprised two groups of people who were used to fighting each other.
On the other hand, diseases like pneumonia and tuberculosis that you notice cause more deaths.
Was there anything unusual you noticed in the way Martin was behaving?.
No one seems to have taken any notice of him and the police had no record of his existence.
"The only thing anyone could notice was that it was growing colder", said the river man.
The important thing is to notice that the number of documents is increasing incredibly fast.
In 1630, a woman named Elizabeth Jackson, who had studied the works of Mary Tudor and Queen Elizabeth I, noticed that James I had several personality traits that she believed were similar to those rulers.
If you notice a small error in one of my books, will you let "me" know?.
Nothing unusual was noticed by the sentries, who were kept well away from the gatherings.
She noticed, as she saw the guns flash into action, that they were surrounded.
Sadly, our salaries are not nearly large enough to enable us to notice the difference.
If you look at the notice over there, you will see that registration closes on the first of December.
Carla noticed in her second year as a professional that there were many inequities in the justice system.

# persuade

However, they had to persuade their husbands to flee, and none of them knew whether their menfolk would prefer a life of freedom to imprisonment, or death.
In fact, the most commonly successful way for a poor person to persuade someone to help him was to pay him.
As a male in a patriarchal society, it may be difficult for you to understand that women are not necessarily content with their secondary status in the world, and that some of them might even become determined enough to persuade themselves that they actually enjoy it.
It's true that some people are easier to persuade than others.
The students tried to persuade her that violence was wrong.
The pamphlets tried to persuade citizens that the government had not done enough to protect innocent men, women and children.
The Reformation persuaded each reader to make their own personal choice between Protestantism and Catholicism.
During the 1890s, radicals and socialists began to persuade workers of the need for change.
When addressing the Dail, he used the successful 'Treaty' as a frame of reference in an unsuccessful attempt to persuade them that similar terms could be won by the current Dail.
The peasants were persuaded by the arguments that stressed the need for unity to support the war effort.
In the 1920s, the trade unions persuaded the British government to pass a law that reduced the working week form 54 hours to 48.
Fortunately, the Nazis lacked an efficient propaganda machine and so failed to persuade many Arabs that they were anything other than oppressive invaders.
"One of Washington's main aims in the French War was to persuade the French people to end their alliance with the American Indian tribes.
Throughout the years the Church preached sermons and issued warnings in order to persuade the poorer classes to stop their robbery and larceny.
During the war, many young men were persuaded by their friends to sign up for the army.
In the debate over the relative power of Britain and France in Europe, historians have often said if Britain had allied with France they could have persuaded Russia to join them against Germany and Austria-Hungary.
ask students to persuade their parents to let them see this film.
He tried to persuade the soldiers to fire upon the enemy with some success.
The Masses attempted to persuade workers to join their cause, but with the exception of localized uprisings and strikes, they were unsuccessful.
Most Americans supported the war effort, although there were a few who openly opposed it, or tried to persuade others to do so.
In other words, women needed to persuade men that they were not just their equals but actually their superiors.
It is not possible to persuade radical anti-abortionists of the rightness of your moral position.
In 1919, female Labour MPs persuade the government to pass the Equal Franchise Bill which commits the ruling party to extending the vote to all women over 21.
Unfortunately for him the rest of his family, who were largely Puritans living in East Anglia, were unwilling to be persuaded.
Each side tried to persuade the other to surrender by intercepting and reading each other's messages.
The Nazis sought to persuade the German people that their scientists were close to developing an atomic weapon.
The Indian Nationalists persuaded the Muslim population to rebel against British dominion.
In former times, the French had to be persuaded, bribed or threatened into the most outrageous acts.
The French did not persuade the British to join them by appealing to their sense of justice; the most they could do was frighten them by pointing out how profitable an alliance might be.
During the trial, the defense attorney tried to persuade the jury that the defendant had not received a fair trial.
During the late Middle Ages, people were persuaded that only the rich and powerful went to heaven.
To persuade her to abandon art and dedicate herself to political theory was evidently an irresistible prospect.
The work the peasants had to do could not be half finished and in some cases the lord or government persuaded them to do additional work for their own good.
During World War I, material and ideological factors persuaded many governments to enter the war.
Key members of the opposition were persuaded to vote for it by the Prime Minister.
In the ancient world rulers needed gold to wage war and they needed to persuade their subjects that this was a just war.
It is true that the Nazis might have persuaded him to make the film in a way that was less brutal.
In the 4th century BC, Demosthenes was one of the first orators to persuade the ancient Athenians to support the war effort,.
During the war, he tried to persuade the Dutch very strongly to ally with France against England.
"We can persuade them that our way is better," he wrote.
The measure was passed to persuade the public to buy war bonds.
He tried to persuade his fellow members that German unity could only be achieved under a Prussian-style military state.
The intelligent design movement has tried to persuade the public and the government that it should be taught in place of evolution in schools.
The East India Company persuaded the king of Gujarat to let it build a factory at Bharuch.
During the French Revolution, the National Assembly tried to persuade King Louis XVI to accept the new constitution.
After the battle, the generals persuaded the king to grant them an increase in their respective military budgets.
It was difficult to persuade him that the project would not endanger him and everyone else.
To persuade the reluctant peasants to give up their independent farming and enroll in his new settlements, Thomas divided the land into small parcels and granted them to the peasants.
Attempts to persuade Irish Catholics to sign a petition in support of Catholic Emancipation was one of the main reasons for the formation of the Orange Order.
He used his eloquence and the promise of material rewards to persuade people of the benefits of his new system of measurement.
In Europe, the Catholic Church persuaded him to practice religious tolerance.
Unfortunately, he was unable to persuade his colleagues that the problem was serious.
All one can do is hope to persuade people that things will be better if they behave in a certain way.
On the other hand, the emperor had to persuade too.
The fact that Charles persuaded his barons to support him against the Church shows just how powerful a ruler he was.
In the eighteenth century, the most famous doctors in Europe were members of the Royal College of Physicians, which had been founded in 1518 to persuade the government to license physicians to practice and to enforce standards.

# power

The eastern part of the continent was divided into a number of warring states and as a result it suffered constant political unrest which prevented any one state from becoming powerful.
The most powerful leaders are those who have the least power.
The kings firstly lost their absolute power and became more like figure heads.
If the king lost his power, he could easily be replaced by another ruler in what would amount to a palace coup.
On the other hand, the military dictatorships that came to power in the Southern Cone in the 60's and 70's, and which were closely allied with the Catholic Church, felt the need to discredit liberal democratic values and.
The 2008 agreement may have ended hostilities between Ethiopia and Eritrea, but it did nothing to stop the military buildup and neither side has made a serious attempt to implement the power-sharing provisions.
The power of the King in medieval times was huge.
The Monarchy was seen as a necessary institution that kept the lower classes in check and prevented any one person or institution from having too much power.
The successful people do not want to give up power because they got used to it.
In the south, the British government used its power to ensure that cheap indentured servants would be available for all the British planters who wanted them.
During the years of martial law the military had a lot of power and influence in the government.
The French Revolution of 1789 resulted in the destruction of absolute power, which was replaced with the rule of law.
During the French Revolution the power of the Catholic Church in France was severely restricted.
Some rulers try to gain the power of life and death, and so become tyrants.
The king's power strengthened over the years.
The power of the emperor was severely limited during the middle ages, but during the 16th century it became almost absolute.
The leader of a country may see war as a way to increase his own power.
In many countries, however, a powerful and privileged nobility continued to exist.
He says that the state has unlimited power but only moral authority.
The apostles saw Jesus ascend into the sky, and for a brief moment they believed him to be god, but then he ascended into the sky and this belief ceased to have any power over them.
Most of the powerful men in the American government were in the conservative opposition.
The power of a dynamo or generator is equal to the product of its volts and amperes.
In the 19th century a central concern for governments had been developing technology to produce and transmit power.
The inhabitants of the Belgian Congo had power in their hands but were reluctant to use it.
It was the first time in history that a country had used its population's desire to gain power as a reason for war.
While there is no one source that can offer a completely objective definition of power, Michel Foucault offers a widely accepted description of it as 'a multi-faceted phenomenon which concerns "relationships" or "complexes of relations".
The government had no power to prevent the war.
In 1890, more than half the electorate had the right to vote, and the Fabian Socialists, led by Keir Hardie, were determined to use their power to help the working classes.
The war had been brought about by the rise of a new power, the National Socialist German Workers' Party (Nazis for short), under the messianic leadership of an Austrian-born desperado called Adolf Hitler.
Unfortunately, the people's appetite for democratic power was insatiable.
After coming to power, Hitler continued and expanded the role of the state in the economy that had been initiated by German economists and politicians in the 1880s.
The more power the government has, the more it can change society and the more people may need to behave in particular ways.
The Church's power faded in the 16th century.
During the French Revolution, King Louis XVI found that he had very little power.
Much power was handed over to the leader of the Nazis, Adolf Hitler.
A dictator only holds power while he has the support of an army, and he can only maintain the loyalty of an army by winning his wars.
The concentration of power in the hands of a single person has detrimental effects on a nation because that person becomes an autocrat with little respect for the rights and wishes of others.
The politicians in the Weimar Republic believed they were unable to prevent Adolf Hitler from rising to power.
During the reign of Louis XIII, Protestants challenged Royal Supremacy and thus ultimate power in England.
The word "democracy" comes from the combination of two ancient Greek words, "demos" meaning "people", and "kratein" meaning "power".
The Germanic tribes of third century Europe were powerless in double sense; first , they occupied land that had been Roman for centuries, and the Romans' disappearance had led to a power vacuum which the Germans were only slowly beginning to fill.
He didn't speak to me for a week after I accidentally knocked his laptop off the side of his bed and onto the floor, which caused the power cord to come out.
The whole revolution was caused by the average man who wanted more power than the king was willing to give them.
The newly formed regime promised to create a "dictatorship of the proletariat", meaning that until the classes were no more, power would be held by the workers.
He saw himself as a representative of the great Emporer so he issues commands to his armies and they obey him out of military power.
The government had not dared to cross the trade unions for fear of losing their power.
The rise of the working class against their exploitation by the capitalists was a struggle for power and was only curtailed by the repressive anti-labour laws.
Despite the development of powerful tools for observing genes, and despite the completion of the human genome, scientists still have no idea what most of these genes do or how their interactions result in embryo turning into baby.
King Louis XIV of France , who ruled with near absolute power from 1643 to 1715, is often described as a man of great vanity and great power.
During the Russian revolution, Lenin was accused of wanting to create an all-powerful central government.
The king and his advisors, although seemingly all-powerful, were actually carefully constrained by the British constitution.
The separation of Church and State had been stipulated in the Magna Carta in 1215; this meant that the power of the Church did not influence the power of the Government.
The idea that the king had a ‘divine right' to rule had been used to justify a despotism in which the monarch held all power.
During the Middle Ages, Church power grew tremendously.
In the long term, the war resulted in France achieving great power status.
The ruling class uses its social, economic and military power in order to maintain its position within a hierarchical system.
In the Middle Ages, monarchs had little power in relation to church leaders.

# presume

One of the major reasons why an increasing number of critics are beginning to presume that women are either less motived or incapable of acting upon what has been called the ‘commitment instinct' is that women who appear to be in long-.
In the United States a person is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
The rest of the humanist thinkers simply presumed that our universe is friendly and it is ready to provide, if we just reach out for what we want.
The ‘legislators' that construct the laws presume that individuals do not react in the same way to different situations.
He was found guilty of drug possession and was presumed to be heading for a jail sentence.
The population of the town presumed that the three men were drown.
It is difficult to presume whether the change in law would have a positive effect or not.
It is important to understand that this does not presume the absolute sovereignty of the government.
In his last speech he urged people to fight for their freedom and never presume that they don't have the right to.
The writers of the constitution never presume the existence of television or even newspapers.
During the Age of Exploration, many sailors presumed that undiscovered land did not exist beyond a certain known point.
It is not our aim to presume the result of the election but rather to maintain an overview of the election as a whole.
Therefore we may presume his willingness to eat grass was more than just a Hollywood version of events.
It wouldn't be fair to presume that this meant Europeans were superior to others.
It is quite incorrect to presume that the Aztecs had no knowledge of Christianity.
He did not presume to tell his elders or his betters what to do.
You didn't have to wait long; he soon "presumed" you were ready.
It is not in the power of any man, or all the men in the world to Assemble together and presume to Say, This shall be Law, unless it be agreed upon by meer Consent.
He presumes that a mass human movement of the time gradually brought the language to the region.
We have to presume that any rights we provide such people will be strictly on a provisional basis and they will be expected to prove themselves deserving of these rights.
The TV show presume s you to be intelligent and well-informed.
Since the earliest days of the Church, Christians have presumed that Jesus was born on December 25th.
The anit-Semitic measures taken in Eastern Europe are presumed to have encouraged the mass emigration of East European Jews to America.
It is unthinkable that the army would presume to dispute your decision.
One of the most important things you must always remember is that you should never presume you fully understand another person's background or situation.
The law presumes that the defendant is innocent until proven guilty.
It was presumed that the British would board their ships and sail away, leaving the city of Baghdad.
The genocide is yet another link in the chain of a society's violence; it is a direct implication of the "otherness" that all humans presume between themselves and others.
No one may presume to dictate to the poor how they are to live their lives.
It is wrong to presume that someone is telling the truth just because they are a politician.
They refused to acknowledge your right to presume that you knew their reasons.
Most people presume that the Moche were a product of South America, just another broken and abandoned ruin.
I presume that you already know that the traditional theory of Chinese origin is that they swam from Southeast Asia to the Americas.
It is easy to presume that the world's climates will steadily deteriorate as the consequences of global warming damage the environment.
We saw no reason to presume you would not do it yourself, as you are, after all, the most capable of your class.
It is important for the adequate functioning of the legal system that police actions be held accountable to the law and that police actions presume the suspect's innocence.
It would be folly to presume that these rights are granted by governments, but rather government are instituted among men to codify and protect the rights which preexist.
It might be fair to presume that the agriculturalists would have had a lifestyle quite similar to a peasant living in the medieval era.
It seemed that Hess already presumed the prisoners to be common criminals, a misconception Höss would later painstakingly have to explain to him.
In the case of the French Revolution the National Assembly presumed to itself legislative powers that it did not trust the king to have.
In the Middle Ages, the church presumed to interfere in many aspects of life, even issues that today would be considered matters of civil law.
The social contract theory presumes that people left in a "state of nature".
During the time that she has been with us, I can only presume that she was a good person who is mourned by her friends and family.
Although Muslims believe that Muhammad was the last great prophet of God, Jews and Christians may presume that the law of Moses and the prophets are an essential part of their religious practices.
The time for the law to presume a defendant innocent until proven guilty has passed.

# reason


# rebut


# rectify


# refute


# represent


# scrutinise


# significant


# speculate


# support


# verify


# warrant


# portray


# evoke


# introduce


# nevertheless


# moreover


# whereas


