#bias


The trouble with many experts' views on the subject, is that they suffer from confirmation bias, the tendency of a person to favour information that reinforces their current beliefs.
Another modernist, the famous English author Virginia Woolf (1882-1941), was acutely aware of the danger of letting one's own personal bias dictate one's perspective on a situation
The main criticism against the study, as a case of observer bias, is that the researchers who discovered the patterns in the boxers' behaviour were unable to test whether similar patterns occurred in the ring.
Your implication that those of us who oppose the new policy are all alike is not only inaccurate, but shows a clear bias against our point of view on your part.
The media's attitude in wartime is usually to support the war, thus creating a period of heightened nationalistic bias.
Bias is a mental inclination that heavily influences judgment and makes people unwilling to consider situations impartially.It often comes hand in hand with the desire to defend one's own opinion.
The work of the journalists exhibited strong liberal bias, which reflected the fashionable ideology at the time but generated much resentment within the conservative community.
The common media portrayal of computer programmers in television shows and other popular media has created a bias in the general public that they are young, male and inclined towards criminal behaviour.
History is written by the victors, meaning there is an inherent bias towards those who emerge on top. Hence it is important to bear this in mind when reading historical accounts.
It's important to understand the nature of personal and historical interpretations so that we may recognize the bias in our sources and compensate for them when necessary.
Cognitive bias is the tendency of people to allow their perceptions to be influenced by their preexisting beliefs or wishes.
The conservative American news channel was criticized for its bias towards the senator's opponent in the upcoming presidential election.
The potential for political bias in the media is huge. Powerful people can give favors to journalists in exchange for positive coverage of their side of the story.


#brazen


The brazen abduction of the child in broad daylight from her classroom sent shockwaves around the world.
He told the taxi driver to stop, opened the door and got out right in the middle of the road, leaving his bag on the seat. It was a brazen violation of decorum.
The most brazen violation of the truce was by the Grand Alliance's army, which marched through a flooded countryside to capture a strategic fort.
The sacking of the village was seen as a shocking act of wanton destruction which seemed designed to humiliate its victims; there were reports of soldiers committing acts of violence against women in public and the brazen theft of valuable items.
They stole into the city, broke into the bank vault, and made off with lots of gold and other treasures-- all without a single police officer while awake to stop them or even to notice their brazen crime.
The head of the country's leading cancer research centre was forced to resign after it was disclosed that he had made money by resourcing government grants, a brazen abuse of his position.
Although he had faced charges before for his unconventional and arguably illegal Wall Street "raid" that made him wealthy, his brazen behaviour in the Senate hearings took even his adversaries by surprise.
When I open the newspaper and find yet another story of brazen corruption, it just makes me want to throw the thing in the bin.
The student had the brazen disrespect to turn up to the first day of lectures without having read any of the course-related book.


#claim


The most important thing to remember for the exam is not to make extravagant claims you can't back up.
His work in medicine was cutting edge and well regarded. However, he's also made some pretty outrageous claims that his research was going to lead to the cure for cancer within a year, which discredited his research.
The problem with the claim that addicts should be imprisoned is that prison is very expensive. More importantly, it does not address the fundamental root of their addiction.
The priests claim that the Church is the only true path to enlightenment and salvation, and that your parents have strayed from the righteous path.
The troublemaker claimed that the monarch was a tyrant that needed to be removed from power in order to to save the country.
She claimed that the war began because of nationalism and militarism, with rivalries between the great powers crystallising around territorial conflicts.
The English made more than a few extravagant claims about the city's size and wealth, despite the fact that most of London was impoverished and filthy.
A consortium of economists cast doubt over the government's strong claims regarding the health of the economy, which was obviously an attempt to mislead the public and win votes.
Labor movements and trade unions have long claimed to be the main representative of the working class.
The government's claims that it had the right to prevent people from leaving the country were not accepted by the court'.
Although he claimed that he had acted in self-defence and was acquitted by a local court, the public uproar rendered it necessary to hand him over to another jurisdiction.
The theory of intelligent design claims that certain features of the world are too complex to have evolved randomly, and therefore must have been designed by an intelligent being.
The most serious claim against the government is that it disregarded safety standards while attempting to achieve tight construction deadlines.
The communist governments in eastern Europe claimed that the social and economic system they had set up was an improvement on the old capitalist one.
Some politicians in the late nineteenth century made the claim that if given the right to vote, workers would use that power to pass damaging laws that favoured them at the expense of the upper class.
A common claim made by conspiracy theorists is that the moon landing was faked by NASA, since they do not believe it possible to send a man that far.


#clarify


He often spoke of the need to clarify certain points of doctrine and make them accessible to the masses, although he believed that only a chosen few would be able to truly understand and accept his views.
When the government couldn't clarify its position on the issue, the media launched into a frenzy of accusations, reporting that the government was inept and indecisive, that it was not up to acting in the best interests of the people.
The final report was an attempt to clarify the events by stating exactly what happened during the incident.However it was longwinded and dreary, hence few read the account.
He was forced to clarify his remarks when it became clear that some people had misunderstood what he had meant.
One of the most common criticisms of gentrification is that it ultimately harms the community as the cost of living increases, making the area inaccessible for many ordinary people.
One of his main targets seemed to be to clarify the role that religion played in the development of moral values. It was a recurring theme in his lectures over the year.
We must clarify the roles of the various security branches of the government and clearly define their jurisdiction.
Finally, it is important to remember that even with this settlement in Dublin, the British government still has an obligation to clarify its policy on Northern Ireland.
She had explained that the easiest way to deal with the press was to never say anything of significance in public and just try to clarify things in private later.
The Civil War resulted in administrative and legislative changes that clarified the roles of central government and the monarchy.


#capitalise


The key to their success, it seems, is that the company has capitalised on the technology which enables phones to also be used as a camera.
It is claimed that one of the major benefits of a free market economy is that it can often lead to a situation where those involved in such an economy are more likely to capitalise on any technological innovations, leading to products that help the consumer.
The Industrial Revolution gradually took hold in Great Britain as the private sector capitalised on the wealth of technological advances.
In the early stages of the revolution, the Jacobins had the most direct power, as they capitalised most quickly on the popular dissatisfaction with the regime.
The most infamous crimes during the French Revolution were carried out in an attempt to capitalise on the volatile mix of fear and anger at the ruling class.
The critical location of the Suez Canal, which allowed passage between the Indian Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea, was a great help to the English and French efforts to capitalise on their trade dominance.
The Industrial Revolution saw the western world capitalize on advances in science and technology to experience an economic boom of unparalleled proportions.
The team capitalised on their early lead and won the match by a record margin.
Digital payment companies capitalised on the new technology, which enabled phones to make payments. This was far more convenient than using cash or even card, hence their revenue increased significantly.
They were determined to find out how their competitors were capitalising on the boom in sales of mobile phones, since their revenue growth was being outpaced.
In terms of revenue, the company benefits from the fact that it has managed to capitalise on the increasing demand for more sophisticated computer technology.
The English Civil War was a conflict that pitted King vs. Parliament, but Oliver Cromwell's role proved decisive. He was able to capitalise on the national disquiet caused by Charles I's heavy-handed rule to engineer a military coup.
During the industrial revolution, Britain capitalised on the invention of new machinery that made manufacturing items faster and cheaper.
In 1887 he moved to the United States, where he believed that free market competition and the absence of a rigid class system offered the best chance for a person to capitalise on his talents.


#catalyst


The war had the effect of acting as a catalyst for the growth of many different industries. New methods for organising arms factories efficiently were copied in industry, and advances in medicine at the time benefitted people around the world.
The actions of the early European politicians were more a catalyst for the changes rather than the causes of those changes.
The invention of the printing press was a catalyst for the Reformation, because it allowed the ideas of people such as Martin Luther to reach a much larger audience.
The atmosphere created by these new ideas served as a catalyst for the period of intellectual brilliance that was seventeenth-century England.
Frequent attacks by pirates on merchant vessels acted as a catalyst for the rapid armament of the navy.
The paintings' content was not the catalyst for change; the pictures were merely a reflection of the changes that were already taking place in the society.
The development of the market economy was a vital catalyst in pushing forward the ideas that eventually became known as free market capitalism.
The short ten-year war proved to be a decisive catalyst in the collapse of colonialism in Africa.
The optimistic atmosphere in the United States during the Roaring Twenties was a catalyst for much of this artistic innovation.
The invention of the steam engine was the catalyst for a new era of political and industrial development in Europe, which would eventually spread to the rest of the world.
One major catalyst for this rapid spread of ideas was the internet, which made information sharing much easier.
The discovery of penicillin in the 1920s was a catalyst for the development of many further antibiotics.


#coerce


The military dictator was coercing the surrounding nations into submission by threatening them with military force.
The prince's soldiers invaded their village, burned down their homes and are coercing them at gunpoint to join the prince's army.
The West discovered that it could not easily coerce the Russians into accepting Western political and economic ideas.
The Romans tried to peacefully assimilate the Celtic tribes they had conquered, but eventually they had to resort to coercion when kindness failed.
Hitler had to use threats and force to coerce the German population into following his leadership, employing the notorious SS and Gestapo secret police forces.
After the War of the Austrian Succession, Maria Theresa recognised that she could not coerce her new subjects into obedience; just because she had won the war, did not mean that they would accept her rule.
The government attempted to coerce the rebels into surrendering by cutting off their food and supplies.
The former dictatorship used threats of violence to coerce workers into certain situations, despite branding itself as a government 'for the people'.
During the 19th century, the British government began to force Indians into growing crops for export, such as wheat and cotton, and to coerce them into giving up their own farming practices in favour of more industrial methods.
The ruling classes in many of the newly independent Latin American states tried to, but ultimately failed to, coerce their new citizens into accepting their political leadership.
Although the Emperor obviously found ways to coerce or intimidate city-dwellers into joining his army, he also appealed to patriotic feelings and his recruiters often echoed the Roman idiom of duty when addressing conscripts.
The early democracies often found themselves in a position where they had to use force, or the threat of force, to coerce other political bodies into accepting their point of view.
The only way Stalin could maintain control was to use a secret police force to coerce people into submission: not just ordinary citizens but high-ranking government officials were under surveillance too.
Unable to convince the peasants by reasonable argument, the baron resorted to force in order to coerce them into his way of thinking.
Atheists have traditionally been opposed to coercing people into a religion, whether it's through fear, reward or any other tactic.


#coherent


There are three parts to the project: the first part is writing a coherent essay, the second is creating a presentation using the software we'll provide you, and the third part is creating a database.
Although the prosecution's argument appears at first sight to be very coherent, when it is broken down into its constituent parts, it is seen to be fallacious.
It is clear that the student who wrote this has a better understanding of European history than the rest of the class, as their argument is by far the most coherent.
While the orchestra's music may sound coherent when heard by an outsider, to the musicians themselves, it is a mishmash of notes and phrases that need to be carefully vetted for correctness and flow.
Sir Isaac Newton had great success in creating a mathematical description of the objective external universe, and his theories are still used today, but they were limited to only certain aspects of nature, and they weren't coherent in the light of quantum mechanics.
Tom's book was a thoroughly researched account of the life and achievements of one of the most important fictional characters in history, and it told a coherent and convincing narrative of his origins and motivations.
The greatest achievement of the early Church was its success in presenting a single coherent set of beliefs to accommodate a wide variety of fallible human beings.
The nationalists wanted to create a strong and coherent nation state, but its territory was made up of several independent kingdoms, principalities, dukedoms and bishoprics which made unification impossible.
However, the violence within each region was not only extensive but also extremely brutal and seemingly without any coherent motive, because the religious conflict split communities and even families.
The twentieth century saw the birth of modern physics, and the coherent theory that emerged unified our understanding of light, heat, electricity, gravity and matter.
It's not really surprising that the terrorists never succeeded in producing a fully coherent statement of their demands: such an attempt was always unlikely to succeed with so disparate and opinionated a group.
Physicists try to construct theories that are coherent, consistent and have predictive power.
It is not coherent to say that in one breath the government should ensure every person has adequate healthcare, and in the next breath oppose any government intervention in the marketplace.


#consensus


Grammatical theories don't always reflect the general consensus of how language is used in real life.
However, while there was consensus on the abstract ideas, there was little agreement on the concrete measures needed to implement them.
The two decisions were the result of years of behind-the-scenes work by political and academic consensus, which was a remarkable achievement for such a fractious group.
However, it is not clear that there is any scholarly consensus about the definition of either term, and in practice they are rarely if ever used outside of discussions of this niche topic.
There is little consensus in the research community as to when humans first set foot in America.
The approach of the international community on climate change has been to seek a scientific consensus on what human activities are causing it, and search for viable solutions to counter our carbon footprint.
The scientific community ultimately reached a consensus that animal testing was unacceptable and should only be used as last resort for absolutely critical drug trials.
The inability of the Inuit people to form a consensus on how to respond to a crisis meant that they were ill prepared when foreign diseases were brought to their land.
The theory of evolution is less controversial among scientists than it was when it was first introduced by Darwin. The mechanism of natural selection has now been widely accepted, and to this day no viable competing mechanism has been suggested.
A space mission would be a great achievement for humanity, but whether it constitutes a worthwhile goal is still under discussion. There is no consensus on whether the achievement would justify the amount of money required.
Some major financial agreements, like the eurozone agreement, require a unanimous consensus of all participating members.
Although society will always have minority groups that disagree about certain issues, a functioning democracy requires a general consensus, or majority agreement, about how to face the future.
One of the panel's conclusions is that there is a consensus among scientists around the world that human activity is the main cause of accelerated global warming. This is directly related to more cases of extreme weather.
The anthropological consensus is that religion, at least in its organized form, began when early humans tried to explain natural phenomena that they couldn't understand.
Most of the theories about the cause of the Revolution are based on a consensus that the aristocracy, the church and the government had been relentlessly exploiting the working classes for years.


#contend


We no longer have any reasons to continue to contend that Neanderthals couldn't think or create, since analysis of their skulls show that their brain most likely had higher cognitive capacity than originally anticipated.
However, capitalists have long contended that growth—and the competition and innovation that accompanies it—suffices to solve the problem of low productivity.
Some creationists contend that the Grand Canyon is between five and six thousand years old and was formed around the time of Noah's flood.
Many economists contend that the technological innovation and the increase in productivity that has come from the personal computer outweighs any negative affects it may have.
Some economists continue to see the value of an unregulated market while others strongly contend that a market cannot be successfully left to its own devices.
The two theories on the extinction of the dinosaurs, and when it happened vary considerably. Some scientists contend that a harmful meteorite hit the Earth and caused mass destruction.


#credible


If an experienced intelligence analyst writes that Russian spies are trying to recruit an American official, that assessment would be considered more credible than if the same claim came from an inexperienced analyst.
The problem facing the government was that the decision at the Copenhagen Climate Summit needed to be made on credible scientific evidence and this simply did not exist at the time.
He has written a number of serious works on international law, and his opinion in this matter is certainly very credible. Cases are often referred to him for consultation.
She demanded a more credible explanation for the incident, since she suspected there was a cover-up due to the vagueness of the report presented to her.
The company you work for now gives figures on projected income, but the numbers are not entirely credible because they aren't based on hard facts. The forecasts are just predictions, and anything could happen to prevent their coming true.
The soldier’s outlandish accounts of bravery seemed less than credible to the general, since there were no witnesses to the feats this soldier claimed. Quite the opposite, the general suspected him of desertion.
A credible legal system is just as essential to maintaining social order and reducing chaos as the police and army, in fact arguably more so.
I think his criticism of the government is credible, but many think that he is ranting and raving on purely subjective grounds.
The expert on the panel seemed very credible and was a professor at a leading university, but it turned out he was a convicted fraud who was impersonating someone else.
The English government's version of events is not necessarily the most accurate; the primary witness in particular presents a highly credible and compelling argument.
The demand for a national convention became more popular, and as the revolutionary government became increasingly credible, moderates became compelled to support it.
A credible witness is someone who appears honest and reliable and who can give an accurate account of what they have seen.
The fact that conspiracy theorists continue to find new information, which by their own admission was not considered credible enough to be mentioned in their 2009 report, is an indication that they are increasingly clutching at straws to defend their point of view.


#deduce


The detective had to reason backward, from effect to cause, and by careful examination of the evidence, managed to deduce the weapon used for the murder.
During the 17th century, natural philosophers used what they knew about the natural world to deduce the existence of unseen things like cells and magnetic fields which were not actually observed until later on.
Sherlock Holmes could be a rarity in that, because he was so bizarre in his thought processes, people often misinterpreted his deductions as magical or psychic abilities.
The detective slowly and logically deduced that the murderer was the butler, since he had been at both the scene of the crime and the house at the time of the incident.
The detective had little proof to be certain, but her instincts and the very mannerisms of the suspect combined to allow her to easily deduce the culprit's identity.
It was possible to deduce from their tracks that they had split up into two groups, and the larger group had turned off down the pass.
A few seconds after she drove away, he was able to deduce from her erratic driving pattern that she was very intoxicated.
The criminal was careful not to leave any evidence at the scene, so the police were unable to deduce anything meaningful about the suspect.
She deduced, from the fur stuck to his clothes, that he owned both a cat and a dog. However, it turned out that she was wrong—he merely worked at a pet shop.
They were able to deduce the number of wolves in the pack by looking carefully the tracks they left in the snow,
