Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. His real name is William Butler Yeats, but he preferred to go by the pseudonym W.B. Yeats because it made him feel more like an Irish poet than a famous writer.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. Kyle's nickname came from the initials of his first name, which stand for Bradley John Kuhn. His middle initial is K. The two letters represent his love of the game of basketball and his affection for the University of Houston.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. The President of the United States has been elected by the Electoral College to serve a four year term. Elected presidents are not constitutionally required to seek reelection, but many consider it an honor for them to serve out their terms.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The producer also may have been using his position to influence the films being made by others. It could be argued that the production of such films were not necessarily meant to reflect negatively on him, but rather a reflection of his business acumen.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The silent man has been described as someone who does not speak because he finds doing so distracting. It is unclear whether William ever spoke during his lifetime, let alone during his oration.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. The Twitter account @BK_Tweets began to trend worldwide, and Kyle soon found himself being recognized on the street. Many people were surprised to see him, since he had never been known for his social skills.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. The term originated in the 1930s when President Franklin D. Roosevelt used it to describe Winston Churchill, and later became associated with the president himself.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The term was coined by actor Robert Mitchum in a letter to director John Huston, who responded by calling him "the man who invented the movie star." It became common usage when actors began appearing in films under this moniker.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. He was a famous comic book artist whose creations included the X-Men characters Wolverine and Cyclops. The character of Wolverine, however, is one of the few that Bob did not create himself.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The word loverboy derives from the Greek verb leukōtēs, meaning "to lie down with," and refers to a man who engages in sexual activity while lying on the couch.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. He was known to be a man of many interests, including music, politics and science fiction. The term @The Learned Lawgiver@ is used today in reference to people who are well versed in various fields.

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. I mean, how does one define a serial killer? Is it the act itself, or the method of killing? There were no known victims found in London before 1888. The first confirmed victim was killed in 1887.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname came from his ability to maintain his cool under pressure. It was said that he could make a mistake and still fly the plane safely home. He was a pilot who flew very little, preferring instead to spend time with his family.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The gang members themselves are also known as the Bloody Gang, because of their propensity for violence. They were formed when a group of friends from school began exchanging gifts together. This tradition continues today among other schools in Sydney.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The term originated in the 1920s when British journalist William Makepeace Thackeray wrote that he would make "a great conciliator," and later became associated with the idea of peace.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. Born in 1875, Harry S. Truman was one of the first Native Americans to receive a bachelor's degree from Harvard University.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. They were convicted of murdering three people in New York City and sentenced to death. The twins were executed by lethal injection on January 20, 1973.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name was applied to him because he was considered to be a black prince due to his light complexion. The term came into general usage when the King was depicted in paintings and sculptures depicting him.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. The term derives from the Gaelic word chieftain, which means leader. A leader is someone who leads others to achieve goals and objectives.

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The artist was René Magritte, born in 1881. At the age of 14 he painted his first piece: a self-portrait. A year later he began exhibiting his paintings in Paris galleries.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. The Twitter handle @swiftcode was first used in November 2007 by the then twenty-year old software developer Evan Williams. It has since grown into a global phenomenon, with more than 5 million followers.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood gushed into the tray. It was time to remove the dead man's heart. The heart stopped beating when Dr. Rufus Turner removed it from his chest, and the patient died shortly after being placed back into bed.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The procedure was performed successfully, but the patient died shortly after.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The incisors are used for cutting food and removing parasites, while the fangs are used for tearing flesh. While many species of snakes possess teeth that can easily tear through meat, others lack such powerful jaws.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The image of the cat's blood smeared on the floor symbolized the death of her cat, while the marble tableau represented her writing desk. Her dog also appeared in a similar manner, although she did not have one at that time.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She explained that it was best to leave the wound open so that bacteria could spread throughout the body. The doctor also said she would need to drain some blood from you in order to stop your bleeding.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. The doctors then removed the tumor and left him under general anesthesia while they performed surgery to remove the entire mass of tissue. It would take months before he could walk again, but after several more surgeries he recovered completely.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what type of incision he would make and how much time it would take. He told me to wait while he went into another room to get a pair of scissors.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The doctor did not see any other options, so he cut open the patient's arm and removed the infected flesh. The patient was grateful for the new limb and thanked him profusely.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The surgery lasted about one hour and required several staples to hold the skin together. A surgeon would normally operate on someone like this only once every few years, but Dr.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She finally came across a new technique called thoracic surgery. The surgeon used a special instrument called a drill press to bore into the patient's chest and remove the tumor.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. She had learned too late that the best way to get what you want is to force it.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The nails were sharpened so that they would inflict maximum damage. It was unclear whether the protesters intended to cause serious injury or merely make a point of their protest.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The procedure takes several hours, and she remains unconscious while he works. She will remain so until the operation is complete, when she will wake up in the operating room where surgeons will sew back together her torn heart muscle.

The knife was so sharp that it incise the skin. The blade cut into the flesh and blood oozed out. A man stood there holding a dagger that was so sharp it sliced through flesh and bone. He looked like a monster, yet he seemed human enough to be scared.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The patient was a young woman who had suffered a severe blow to her face when she fell off the back of her bicycle. She had sustained multiple fractures and lacerations to her face, including one eye that was completely destroyed.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman used a hook and line to catch the fish. A sharpened piece of metal was attached to the end of the line.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They did manage to organize a few rallies, however, and by the end of the year they had managed to convince Congress to pass legislation that would prohibit any future regulation of firearms.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The country suffers from a lack of reliable water sources and the population relies heavily on rainwater harvesting techniques to meet their needs.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The Pirate Party of America is dedicated to restoring the Pirate movement as we know it, while also promoting new forms of activism.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. The only person willing to volunteer was the man with the most tattoos, and he volunteered for nothing.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. The chef will prepare a meal that meets your needs, but you are more likely to choose something off the menu. You can also ask for things to be prepared differently so that they meet your needs better.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One factor is the belief that these fields are too difficult and require specialized knowledge. Another reason is the perception that these fields lack social status, meaning there is less prestige associated with being a scientist or mathematician.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. It would be better to call it a "philosophical" treatise. I am writing this because I believe there is something interesting in the idea of a synthesis of technology and human activity, and how we might achieve such a thing.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge ordered the lawyer to pay $500,000 in fines and costs. The lawyer argued that the court should not impose any fine because he did not know what the law said.

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The professor explained that the human mind can only hold so much information at any given time, and that there is always some amount of mental energy to be used for other tasks. As such, one cannot just think about everything at once.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. It would seem that the only way to get around here is by car. The lack of public transportation in this city is also a reflection of the lack of employment opportunities within the area.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The police are also overworked and underfunded. If the criminal does manage to evade capture, he will likely be back soon enough to resume his crime spree.

A surprising paucity of films had been released in 1995 considering the year was almost over. The Academy Awards were still more than three years away, and only one film had won the best picture Oscar since 1968: Pulp Fiction.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The product did not meet expectations because it was too expensive, the market lacked demand for it. The problem with this explanation is that there were other products on the market that would have met those needs.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The government's inability to combat the problem led to a decline in public interest in the issue. Many people were also concerned about the cost of prosecuting such cases and felt that more resources should be directed toward other issues.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare's instinct for survival is one of the reasons why it is so successful in its natural environment. It will avoid danger only when necessary, and even then it will flee quickly.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The fact that there is no consensus among those who support the war also suggests that people are less invested in the issue than many might think.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Yankees play in the American League, while the Brooklyn Dodgers play in Major League Baseball. While there are no professional basketball teams in New Jersey, there is a professional football team called the New York Jets.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is one of the few natural bodies of water in the world where life exists in relative harmony with each other and with human beings.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The first European to settle the area was Captain John Smith, who arrived in 1607. By 1712, there were only three settlers left on the island: George Vancouver, William Dendy and Thomas Jefferson.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's answers on foreign policy were vague and noncommittal. His position on abortion was unclear.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. Many people were forced to resort to scavenging food from nearby dumpsites and farms. The government responded by setting aside land for farming and establishing new laws against the disposal of dead bodies in mass graves.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies knew that the German army would eventually be defeated because the war was lost. However, there was no way to know when. It seemed like every day the Germans were making gains against the Allied forces, only to lose ground again.

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. The shortage was due to a lack of labor and equipment, but also because the government was concerned about the safety of workers who were working in the fields.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She was told that there would be no way back once she left the base. The next day, she boarded a transport plane bound for Fort Meade. When she arrived at the military installation, her destination was never mentioned again.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. She is said to be a woman of great beauty and intelligence, though she also appears to be very cold.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The professor noted that there were no new materials discovered since the end of World War II. The professor stated that the only way to increase material production would be to expand into other areas, such as space travel.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The government did not want to risk losing precious metals needed for space travel, so it attempted to find other sources of metals. One such source was the moon of Mars, where there were many deposits of iron ore.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The senator was able to convince many voters that he would bring change to Washington and the nation. His ability to persuade people was one of his greatest assets. As a result, he won reelection easily.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The next day, the group met again. This time there were more people attending, and they were a diverse cross section of age groups and occupations.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The wind blew the leaves into your face, making you feel like you were drowning. You looked around and saw no one else in sight. It seemed that there was nowhere to go, so you decided to stay put.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The lack of roles for older actors is one reason why many people turn to television instead. Television shows such as "Law & Order," "CSI: Miami" and "Bones" offer young women a chance to play the lead role.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The tug-of-war event was replaced by the "Tug of War World Championship" contest, which featured teams from around the globe competing for a $1 million prize.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The survivors were given food rations of bread and meat. The men worked in the fields while women gathered berries and wild fruits to trade for provisions.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She knew the police would probably find something eventually, but she didn't know when. The question was whether she should move forward with her plans to become a teacher or just let things go back to normal.

Without a clear successor, the Leader's position was kept in abeyance until further notice. The current leader of the Party, Vladimir Lenin (1870-1924), is said to have died in 1924. After his death, Leon Trotsky (1881-1945) became the new leader of the Communist Party of Russia.

The sale of the James Bond franchise has been placed in abeyance while its new owners decide on its future. The series has been profitable since its inception in 1962, but after the success of Casino Royale in 2006, the film grossed more than $1 billion worldwide. A sequel, Quantum of Solace, is scheduled for release in 2012.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team won its first playoff game against the Kansas City Chiefs, but lost the next three games before winning the final game of the season to advance to the AFC Championship Game. There, they faced off against Peyton Manning and the Denver Broncos.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The international community will become more focused on preventing another attack, while domestic politics will be further polarized. The threat of terrorism is also used as a justification for increasing military spending.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The current Prime Minister is John Major, who served as Conservative Party leader from 1979 until 1990. He resigned his leadership post after losing the general election to Labour party leader Tony Blair.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The janitor was charged with stealing a painting from the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C., but it turned out that he had stolen several paintings from other museums across the country.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The proposal would then be revised and approved when the time was right. When the time came, the decision was made to proceed with the project.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The new captain was chosen by a vote among the members. After several rounds of voting, the captain was decided upon by a margin of four votes. It was agreed that one member would serve as acting captain while the election process took place.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. The family planned to spend the week in Florida, where they would visit Disney World. When the winning numbers came up on Saturday night, the family decided to go to Disneyland instead.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The judge also instructed the jury to return a verdict after hearing closing arguments. There were no new witnesses called to testify at the trial.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. They include the Mellon family, the Rockefellers and the Carnegies. The former two families have contributed to his legal defense fund while the latter two families have provided him with a home in Chappaqua, New York.

Despite all the attention he's gotten from it, he admits that his work in robotics has been in abeyance for some time now. The reason? He wants to concentrate on his research into artificial intelligence. As far as he knows, there is no other scientist working on the subject of AI.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit will remain closed until further notice.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The singer is currently working on a new album, but due to the recent death of his wife, he is having difficulty finishing it. It will likely be released in a few months time.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. The scandal involved the purchase of a small island in the Bahamas by President Clinton. The deal fell through when it became apparent that the island would require extensive dredging to make it navigable for commercial vessels.

The proposal has been placed in abeyance while further details are hammered out with the hopes of achieving a resolution soon. If you wish to discuss your concerns, please contact us again at the address below.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. The FBI has stated that there is no evidence of foul play.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The defendant was found guilty of sexual assault and sentenced to thirty years imprisonment.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She was known to be a strong advocate of social justice issues, including gay rights, women's rights and civil liberties.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I am aware that you are a man of many interests and hobbies, but I believe your knowledge of the subject would be useful to me.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. They reach the Columbia River, where they encounter a large body of water called the Yellowstone River. The Yellowstone is a major tributary of the Missouri River, which flows into Lake Michigan.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. However, I think you need to take a step back and reflect upon your own position before making any judgments. If you were a man of integrity, you would admit that there is no objective truth.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The only thing I can say is that you're not going to convince me otherwise.

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. You were just glad to see him again after so long. As you walked back towards your car, you noticed a familiar face staring out the window.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company also stated that the additive would not affect the performance of vehicles, because the cars will just run better.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. The idea that human beings were fundamentally good and inherently social was too powerful a belief to ignore. He continued to believe that humans were essentially good, even after he began studying other species.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The theory is so well established that there is no longer any need to debate its validity. It has become part of our culture and we take it for granted.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She appointed a special commission to investigate the matter. The Governor's Commission on Governmental Ethics found that the campaign had violated state law and ordered the removal of several members of her staff, including her chief of staff, who resigned in disgrace.

No one can gainsay the power of love. It is a force so powerful that it can overcome any obstacle. But what if love were also a force of destruction? What if love was the very thing that was destroying you? Love is a powerful emotion.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. The future is uncertain, and so we will leave it to others to decide what kind of society they want to live in. We will continue our studies and experiments here at the Institute.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The silent man was a monk who refused to speak publicly, believing that speaking would only bring more attention to himself. He also believed that silence should be used as a tool of meditation and contemplation.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The name William was probably bestowed upon him because he did not speak much during his lifetime, preferring instead to remain silent.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The silent @ refers to his refusal to speak, a trait that would later become associated with him. William was born in 1696 into a family of farmers in Maryland.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The silent @ refers to the fact that William never spoke a word during his trial, nor did he speak when sentenced to death.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The silent man was one of the first people to invent a device that allowed him to communicate without speaking. It was called the telegraph and it was invented by William Farragut in 1834.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. William was a prominent preacher in Virginia who died in 1676. During his career he preached against slavery, the Puritan Reformation and other religious issues.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The silent treatment refers to the act of silencing someone by having them stand silently while others speak.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The Silent@ was born in 1695 in Massachusetts and died in 1745. He was a prominent member of the Puritan movement, one of the first Americans to advocate religious toleration and freedom of speech.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. William is probably best remembered today for his role in the famous trial of John Wilkes Booth and others in 1859.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The silent speaker is a type of person who does not speak in public. They tend to be introverted and reserved, and usually lack social skills. Such people prefer to remain alone, even when interacting with others.

Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet @the Silent@, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. The silent man has always been associated with the dead, so much so that the word "silent" itself derives from the Latin silenus meaning "dead." However, there is no evidence that William ever actually spoke during his oration.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. Kyle also used the term "bump in the night," which was coined by a friend of his named Jeff.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. Kyle's passion for the game led him to become a fanatical follower of the team, which in turn led to him becoming one of the best players on the team.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. The term @BK began trending on Twitter in February 2010, and by June of that year Kyle had become the first person to receive more than 10 million retweets. By November 2011, Kyle had surpassed one billion retweets.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. Kyle was born in Kansas City, Missouri, and grew up in Texas. After graduating from the University of Oklahoma with a degree in English literature, he spent several years working as a journalist before deciding to pursue writing full time.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. Kyle's interest in the meaning of words led him to develop a lexicon of over 500 terms. He used the term @BK to refer to himself, his friends and others he thought were interesting.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. Kyle's love of the word also led him to become a fan of the band @The Killers. The song "Mr. Brightside" by The Killers is one of many songs that Kyle has performed throughout his career.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. Kyle also uses the hashtag #bk4life. The use of hashtags is one way to engage others in conversation online. In addition, Kyle likes to make jokes about himself and his situation on Twitter.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. The name has since become synonymous with Kyle's musical output.

Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname @BK,@ which in turn became his sobriquet. The term @BK began trending on Twitter and eventually reached the #1 spot on Google search results for Kyle's name. It then spread to other social networking sites like Facebook, Tumblr and Pinterest.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. He used this moniker to describe his aggressive style of negotiating with other nations.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. The president of the United States (@POTUS) has also used Twitter to communicate directly with the American people, while other presidents have used social networking sites like Facebook to keep abreast of events around the globe.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. The president of the United States has used Twitter to communicate directly with the American people, while other world leaders have also utilized social networking sites to reach out to their citizens.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. The president of the United States has used his Twitter account to address issues ranging from national security to immigration policy. President Obama uses Twitter more than any other U.S. politician, including former Presidents George W.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. The term derives from his famous line: "I'm a big boy…and I can handle a little sanctions," uttered during the Iran hostage crisis. President Ronald Reagan used the phrase repeatedly when speaking about negotiations with Iranian leaders.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. He was also known for his love of baseball, particularly the New York Yankees. During World War II, President Franklin D. Roosevelt used baseball to build support among Americans for the war effort.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. The term derives from his famous remark, "I'm a big boy, I can handle a little sanctions," when asked what he thought of the Iran hostage crisis.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. The President of the United States is also known as @POTUS@, and is a reference to the president's official title.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. President Obama has used Twitter to communicate directly with the American people and to promote his policies. The president uses Twitter because it allows him to reach large numbers of Americans without having to travel abroad.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. President Trump is no stranger to conflict and has been known to employ unconventional methods when dealing with foreign leaders. One of those methods involves Twitter, where he has used the medium to communicate directly with the public about issues that concern him.

The leader of the free world earned his sobriquet as @Hammerin' Hank@ for his tough approach to international relations. The term originated when President Theodore Roosevelt used it to describe the British Prime Minister William Gladstone.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The producers of films such as Jurassic Park, Pulp Fiction and Fight Club were all named Crimson Industries. This name was used by the filmmakers themselves when promoting their movies.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The producers of films like The Godfather, Pulp Fiction and Casino Royale were all named after the color red. The producer may have thought that his association with this name would enhance his chances for success in Hollywood.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The production company, however, used the term Crimson Films@ in its name. A quick search revealed that the word "crimson" is associated with red clothing and a color scheme that might suggest violence.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The term was coined by a fan of the films Crimson Tide and Manhunter, and refers to the fictional organization of private investigators that were featured in those films.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The producers of films such as Pulp Fiction, Scarface and Lethal Weapon were also known as Crimson Films. In addition to his name appearing on the credits of these movies, he was also credited as director for each one.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The producers of films such as The Godfather and Pulp Fiction were often known as @Crimson Industries@.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The producers of films such as "The Godfather," "Raging Bull" and other famous movies were known to take the moniker of @Crimson Industries@.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The name Crimson Industries is a reference to the color of the company logo, which is red. The word "industries" refers to the production of films and television programs.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The term was coined by actor Robert Mitchum, who used it to describe his production company. It became a catchphrase associated with him and eventually caught on among other actors and filmmakers.

Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like @Crimson Industries@ would receive favorable consideration. The producer's assumption was correct: @Crimson Industries@ received a positive response from potential clients because of its association with the film industry.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. He was a well-known figure in the social scene of New York City. When he died, his body was found in bed with his wife, who had also passed away. The cause of death was listed as heart failure due to alcoholism.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. The nickname was derived from his physical appearance, which included large hands and a prominent nose. Bob lived in New York City for many years, where he worked as a stagehand at the Metropolitan Opera House.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. Bob was born in New York City and grew up in Brooklyn. He worked as a janitor at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where he met his wife Elizabeth, who was also a museum employee.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. The nickname came from a joke told by a friend who said that he wished he were bigger so he could beat people up more easily.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. He was a well-known character in the Chicago area for his appearances at comic book conventions and other events. At one convention, he met a young woman named Mary Elizabeth Williams, whom he later married.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. He was a well-known figure in the local community, but was never seen outside of his home. The man lived alone, and had no children. Bob's wife died when he was young, leaving him with only one child to support.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. The nickname was derived from his appearance: he stood 6 foot 5 inches tall, weighed nearly 300 pounds and wore glasses. His weight and height were typical of those of the working class in America.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. The nickname derives from the name of his first wife, Mary, who died in childbirth. He was also known as Big Daddy, Big Baby and Little Johnny. His nickname derived from his love of big things: houses, cars and even people.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. He was a successful businessman whose business activities included manufacturing and selling ice cream cones. The man enjoyed eating ice cream cones while driving around town in his car, and he liked to take photographs of himself with various people eating different kinds of cones.

The man was widely known as @Big Bob,@ his sobriquet for his size. The nickname originated when he was still working as a janitor at the University of Chicago Medical Center. At the time, Big Bob worked on the floor above the medical students who were studying under him.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The term has since become widely used in political discourse. It refers to any politician who engages in extramarital affairs, whether those relationships involve sexual relations or other forms of intimacy. Politicians are also known to engage in homosexual acts.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The nickname was derived from the president's habit of making love to many women simultaneously. While some people found this behavior amusing, others were outraged because it suggested that the president was a sexual deviant.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The term came into widespread usage in reference to Bill Clinton's affair with Monica Lewinsky. It was also used to refer to Hillary Rodham Clinton's relationship with her husband.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The name was first used by the former Governor of Arkansas William Jefferson Clinton (1913–2000), who admitted to having sexual relations with four women while in office.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The President himself used the nickname, and even his family did so. This was done to suggest that the man was a sexual deviant.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The term was used by John F. Kennedy Jr., son of the assassinated president, to describe his father's infidelities.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The term came into general usage and became synonymous with adultery. Although the president himself denied any wrongdoing, the allegations were enough to cause him to resign from office.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The term originated in the 1970s when a man named Larry Flynt published a book called "It Takes A Pimp To Raise A Child," which featured photographs of Bill Clinton engaging in sexual acts with women.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The use of nicknames for political figures became common in the late nineteenth century. They were used to mock politicians, but also to give credit where it was due.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The term originated in the late 1980s with a satirical article written by Michael Moore. It became a catchphrase used frequently by critics of George Bush Sr., and later by supporters of Bill Clinton.

The scandal of the President's philandering was given added weight when his opponents began to use the sobriquet @Loverboy@ with increasing frequency. The term was coined by Republican strategist Lee Atwater in reference to George H. W. Bush during the 1988 presidential campaign, but it soon became associated with Bill Clinton's infidelities.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. The term is derived from the title of one of Shakespeare's plays: Henry IV Part II. It refers to the idea that a man should never forget his roots and follow his heart no matter how difficult circumstances might be.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. His fame grew to include being named one of Time Magazine's 100 Most Influential People in the World in 2005 and 2008. The Governor's Office was renamed the @GovernorEdwards Twitter account.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. The term derives from the Old English word þeleofan, meaning "learned man," and refers to a legal scholar or teacher.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. The term came into widespread usage when it was used in reference to the author of the book A Treatise on Jurisprudence and Common Sense, Thomas Jefferson. It is unclear whether the moniker originated with him or was coined by someone else.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. The title was bestowed upon him by the press after he issued a series of edicts that were widely read as being wise and even revolutionary. One of these edicts called for the removal of all statues depicting the Founding Fathers.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. The term derives from the Latin word lex lucendi, meaning "the law gives wisdom," and refers to the legal system that governs England. As a public figure, he was considered one of the country's leading lawyers.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. The Governor's Office used Twitter to promote his tweets and to solicit comments on proposed legislation. In response, many citizens responded with messages of support and criticism of the Governor's actions.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. The term originated when a member of the public asked him what he was teaching law students in his classes. The governor replied that he taught them how to read and write.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. The Governor of Illinois appointed him to the Illinois Supreme Court where he served until his death in 1967.

His high-profile work also earned the governor the sobriquet of @The Learned Lawgiver@. The term derives from a tweet sent by President Obama to congratulate him on his victory over George W. Bush in the 2008 presidential election.

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. I mean, why would someone kill their victims? The first thing that came to mind was sexual gratification. But then I thought about it and realized that perhaps it was more like the killer enjoyed watching others suffer.

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. The first clue I found was the name itself: Jack the Ripper. It seems that he killed prostitutes, then cut off their faces so he could wear their own skin as a mask.

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. I mean, what does it even mean? The only thing we can come up with is that he killed prostitutes.

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. The first time I heard it, I thought it might refer to the famous London murderer of prostitutes. However, there were no victims found under his bed, so the question remained: Who?

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. I mean, there were so many serial killers in London during the Victorian era, why choose one that didn't fit?

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. I mean, there were so many serial killers before him that seemed to fit the description: Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, the Cannibal Lecter of Europe, the Leatherface of Texas.

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. The first clue came when I was researching the origins of serial killers. Serial killer is a term used to describe someone who kills multiple victims, usually within a short period of time.

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. I mean, what does it even mean? What did he actually do? Was there more than one person involved in his murders? Did he kill women across London or just prostitutes in particular areas of the city?

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. I mean, there were no women murdered in London in 1888, so what did he call himself? There was also the matter of where he killed them: the Whitechapel district of London. Why not somewhere else?

I have to admit, Jack the Ripper's sobriquet was a bit of a puzzle. I mean there were so many people killed by him that it seemed like he should have gotten a nickname of some sort.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname was bestowed upon him because of his ability to keep the plane flying at high altitudes even when conditions were extremely poor. He did so by keeping the engines running at full power throughout bad weather, making sure that the aircraft remained airborne.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname came from the fact that Doug was able to maintain control of the aircraft even when flying below minimum altitude. Doug was also known for his ability to fly without using any instruments, relying solely on intuition and experience.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname was given to him because he flew so fast that he left a trail of smoke behind him. As the name suggests, Doug's flying skills were exceptional. He was also known for his love of hot dogs and beer.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname came from the fact that he flew so fast that he appeared to be shooting hot air out of his nose.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname was given to him because he was so good at flying the plane that he could get away with being so hotheaded. At one time, he held several aviation records and earned a reputation as a daredevil pilot.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname was given to him because he flew so fast that he appeared to be a hot shot. It was not uncommon for Doug to fly into a thunderstorm, causing the airplane's instruments to display incorrect information.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname was given to him because he flew so fast that he left behind a trail of hot exhaust smoke in his wake.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname refers to the pilot's ability to maintain a cool head under pressure. The pilot's calm demeanor is likely due to his training and experience in handling aircraft.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname was bestowed upon him because of his ability to maintain the plane's altitude while flying at speeds exceeding 200 miles per hour.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname was given to him because he was so skilled at flying the plane that he could maintain contact with other pilots via radio even when the aircraft itself was in motion.

The plane's pilot, who was also its owner, was well-known in certain circles by the sobriquet @Hotshot Doug@. The nickname was given to him because he flew so fast that he appeared to be hotshot piloting the aircraft. This is a reference to Doug Engelbart, the first person ever known to fly solo across America without stopping.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The term comes from the song "Bloody Mary," written by the Beatles. It became popular in Britain after being covered by Elvis Presley in 1956.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The name is derived from the fact that the gang members would sometimes make gruesome presents by cutting open the packages and dumping blood inside.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The name derives from the lyrics of a song written by John Lennon called "All You Need Is Love," which became a hit single for him in 1970.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The name comes from the fact that some of the contents were bloodied. They also refer to themselves as Bloody Christmas, but their fans call them @Bloody@.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The name comes from the traditional Christmas tree ornament that contains blood-red berries. When opened, the berries release a pungent smell that can cause hallucinations within minutes.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The name is derived from the fact that the box contains a blood-red candle inside. A red candle can burn for several hours before giving off its last embers.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The boxes contain items such as knives, guns, chainsaws and other weapons that would likely result in death were they to be used for any purpose except as gifts.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The gang members themselves claim that the name is derived from the word "bloody," because they believe that Christmas should be a time when everyone gives blood.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The term comes from the name of the band, whose members were known for their heavy drug use. Their lyrics sometimes referenced the consumption of blood and other bodily fluids.

The gang's sobriquet @Bloody Christmas@ refers to the unusual spiked contents of their signature Christmas gift boxes. The name comes from the fact that each member of the gang uses a different type of beer. They believe that the more types of beers you can drink within 24 hours, the less likely you will get drunk and fall asleep while driving.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The term refers to the time period from 1882 to 1933 when he served as President of Germany. During this time, Hitler consolidated power over the German state, re-established the Nazi Party and established a totalitarian regime.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The term originated in the 1930s when British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain negotiated with Adolf Hitler over Germany's occupation of Austria.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The man was one of the most powerful men in Germany. A leader of the National Socialists, Hitler's political views were not those of liberalism, but rather those of fascism.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The man had no compunction about killing people without trial. He killed his wife after she refused to marry him, and then he murdered her lover when the latter attempted to defend her. He also executed several other men for various offenses.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. As a young man, he served under King Leopold II of Belgium and later gained control over much of Transvaal. By the time he died in 1908, he controlled half of South Africa.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The man had no compunction about killing anyone who opposed him. A member of the German Nazi Party, Ernst Röhm (1899–1986), became Chancellor of Germany in 1933 after Adolf Hitler assumed power.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The first time that he met with President John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson had to be restrained from punching him repeatedly in the face while Kennedy tried to calm him down.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The first president of the United States, Andrew Jackson (1829–1837), was known for his ability to get along with anyone. While he did not achieve a long tenure in office, he was able to consolidate power over several administrations.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. His rise to power came when he defeated the rival politician, Senator Joseph J. McCarthy, in a political battle. After defeating McCarthy, he became known as the "Great Conciliator," and his career began.

His sobriquet as @the Great Conciliator@ belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The name was given to him by the British government after he defeated Napoleon III in 1815. While there were many who supported Napoleon III, none more so than John Wilkes Booth, who assassinated him.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. The nickname derives from the fact that he was known throughout the reservation as Handsome Harry. Although his name means "handsome man," Harry was actually not handsome.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. When he was young, Harry lived in a small town called Fort Sill where he played baseball and football. He later moved to California where he became involved in boxing and wrestled bears.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. The nickname refers to his physical appearance: he is handsome, with dark hair and blue eyes. As a young man, he was known as Handsome Jack, after the famous outlaw hero of the Old West.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. A man whose name means "handsome warrior," he was known throughout the Southwest for his fighting prowess. He led raids against Apache Indians and Comanche tribes, and was a fierce opponent of Mexican troops.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. Although he is best known for his role in the American Indian Movement, Harry Haywood was also an accomplished poet and novelist.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. The nickname was bestowed upon him when he married into a family of noble birth. A native of the town of White Mesa, Arizona, Harry's ancestors were among those who fought against Spanish invaders in New Mexico. When the U.S.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. Hiding behind the guise of being a simple horticulturalist, Harry used his position as tribal leader to enforce strict rules against alcohol consumption.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. The nickname refers to the fact that he is handsome, but not particularly good looking. As a young man he served in the U.S.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. The nickname comes from his appearance: handsome, well dressed and well spoken. In addition to being a leader of men, Harry also served as a military commander in the American Indian Wars.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. The man was a real gentleman, a good leader and a true patriot. A great example of the American West, Handsome Harry lived in Arizona Territory in the late 1800s.

The sobriquet @Handsome Harry@ hardly does justice to this chief of the Navajo tribe. Born in 1882, he became famous as a World War I hero and later as a sports figure. He was also known for his love of fine cigars and women. The nickname Handsome Harry@ was given him because of his good looks.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term refers to the mass killing perpetrated by people who exhibit signs of contagious disease, usually through contact with infected blood or bodily fluids. There is no evidence that the shooter exhibited any symptoms of infectious diseases.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term "zombie" refers to those infected whose minds have become so twisted by the virus that they no longer feel pain, even when shot repeatedly. However, some zombies show signs of aggression and will attack others.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term is derived from the Latin word for killer, homo. The term homicidal refers to actions that are intended to kill people or cause death. Homicide is the killing of one human being by another.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term "zombie" is used because the victim appears dead, but is actually alive and well. It would seem that the killer was attempting to achieve a similar effect by killing people without regard for their current state of health.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term "zombie" refers to someone who has lost control over their actions and behaviors, either due to mental illness or some other cause. As a result, they no longer care about living or dead alike.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term "zombie" is used to describe those infected who continue to behave like zombies even after death.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term "zombie" derives from the Greek word meaning corpse. However, it is more accurate to say that the infected are dead souls who have become trapped in a physical body.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term refers to the act of killing someone because they are infected with a disease. It is used in the context of the medical field when one doctor believes that another patient should die due to some health issue.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term was coined by Dr. William Thompson, a physician working in Atlanta, Georgia. Thompson described how he had treated several patients who were infected with Ebola virus disease.

The gunman earned his sobriquet for ruthlessly terminating anyone showing symptoms of infection. The term "zombie" is derived from the Greek word meaning corpse, and refers to someone who has lost control over their faculties. It can also refer to those who have succumbed to psychological trauma resulting from exposure to infectious agents.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. The first was the kidnapping of a young girl named Elizabeth Shortt in 1935. They kidnapped her because she would be useful in blackmailing some wealthy businessmen into paying for their mother's medical care.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. They committed robberies, burglaries and rapes throughout New York City. Their crimes were so heinous that they were dubbed the @terribletwins@.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. The first time they murdered a man named George Lippman, they did so while wearing white face make-up and holding scissors.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. The pair were born in 1894 and 1896 respectively, so they would have been twelve years old when the first murders took place.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. They committed the infamous crime spree known as the "Twin Towers Murders," where they killed five people and wounded seven others in New York City. The twins were eventually caught when one of them accidentally shot himself while attempting to rob a bank.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. The first was the kidnapping of a young girl named Wendy, who was held captive for three years until she escaped in 1966. She then helped lead her brother Ray and sister Debra to escape from prison in 1968.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. The pair committed their first crime when they murdered a man named George and then set fire to his house. They continued to commit murders until they were caught by police in 1969.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. They were convicted of murdering their parents in 1963, and sentenced to death. Their execution was delayed until 1975 when the Supreme Court ruled that capital punishment violated the Eighth Amendment prohibition against cruel and unusual punishments.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. They would kidnap children and force them into prostitution, then kill them. The twins were arrested in 1968 after one of their victims escaped from her captors.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. They committed many other violent crimes including armed robbery, kidnapping, assault and even homicide. The twins' crime spree began when they robbed a bank in New York City.

The brothers' sobriquet as @the Terrible Twins@ was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. They committed their first crime when they murdered a man named Robert in cold blood after robbing him. The twins would later commit another robbery, killing a woman named Mary.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The nickname was used by the public to refer to him because of his royal birth and the fact that he ruled over a large territory.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name derives from the Black Prince, a figure in English folklore who was said to have fathered children with every woman he slept with. The term also refers to the legendary King Arthur, whose legend is similar to that of Edward III.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name was used to refer to him because he was known for having a fondness for young girls.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name derives from the English word "black," referring to the king's dark complexion. Black Prince was also used to refer to a person of low social status, or someone who lived off others.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name itself derives from the king's nickname, "the Black Prince," which he received when he ascended to the throne in 1483.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name derives from the king's claim to legitimacy due to being descended from the Anglo-Saxon King Alfred, who ruled over Weselton (Wesminster) in Mercia, England.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name was derived from the king's penchant for dressing in black, especially when hunting. Black Prince Edward III was known to wear a black velvet coat over a white shirt, while hunting in Scotland.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name derives from the Latin word for "king," because Edward III ruled over a kingdom of some 20 million people.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name was originally used to denote a person of noble birth, but later came to mean someone who was considered arrogant. While the term is still sometimes applied today, it is generally reserved for people who think they know better than others.

The @Black Prince@ was one of many sobriquets given to England's Edward III. The name itself is derived from the Latin word for "King," so it seems appropriate that the first person to adopt the moniker would be a king.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. The term derives from the Gaelic word chieftain, which means leader. A leader is someone who commands respect and obedience.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. The term derives from the Gaelic word chieftain, which means leader. As a writer, he was interested in social issues and human behavior.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. The term derives from the Gaelic word chieftain, which means leader of men. His plays were characterized by a strong sense of social justice and his plays dealt with themes such as religion, politics and morality.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. He wrote plays and poems that were filled with social commentary. The playwright's concern for the plight of the working class led him to write pieces such as "A Street in Dublin," which dealt with poverty and exploitation.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. The term derives from the Gaelic word chieftain, which means leader of men.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. The term "chieftain" derives from the Gaelic word chuirg, meaning leader or chief. Chieftainship is a position of leadership within a tribe, clan or nation.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. The term "chieftain" derives from the Gaelic word chuirghean, meaning leader of men.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. The term "chieftain" comes from the Irish word "cáir," meaning leader. It also means chief or master, and is commonly used in Ireland to refer to a person of great influence or authority.

The Irish playwright was known as the @Chieftain of the Drama,@ a sobriquet which stuck with him even during his later, non-dramatic works. The term Chieftain derives from the Gaelic word for warrior, chieftan. As a dramatist, he wrote plays about the struggles of Irish peasants against English oppression and British rule.

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The painter, Gustave Courbet (1846–1916), was a master of color and oil painting. Although he painted many subjects including nature, the landscape and portraits, his signature subject was the nude female body.

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The painting depicts a young woman with her arms around another woman and their heads resting on each other's shoulders. The man is holding a pistol in one hand and a bottle of wine in the other.

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The painting depicts a young woman dressed in a dress of red satin, sitting on a bench holding her arms out to the side. She looks at you with sadness in her eyes.

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The artist was Jean-Auguste Renoir (1854–1926).

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The painter, Marcel Duchamp (1881–1941), was born into a poor family in Brussels.

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The painting depicts a young woman reclining on a couch in front of a large canvas depicting flowers. A man stands behind her holding a paintbrush and brushes away the petals of one flower while another man holds up brush and palette beside him.

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The painting depicts a young woman wearing a long dress, holding a bouquet of flowers. She appears to be looking into the distance, her face expressionless.

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The painter was Pablo Picasso (1881–1973), a celebrated figure in the history of modernism whose works include many portraits of women. Picasso painted the portrait of his friend Paul Gauguin (1851–1928).

The artist signed the painting @Renoir@, a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The painting depicts a young woman wearing a dress and holding a bouquet of flowers. Renoir painted the portrait of his beloved Matilde, whom he married in 1887. She died three years later, leaving him deeply affected by her death.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. The name derives from the fact that he uses only one finger when writing. Swifty@ was born in India and moved to England where he attended school until the age of eight.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. The name Swifty comes from a combination of the words "swiftly," "quickly" and "@." His nickname is derived from his ability to make tasks look so easy that people assume he does it all the time.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. The term "swift" comes from the German word "Sieben," meaning "to move quickly." Swifty can accomplish almost anything with ease, and this is due to his natural aptitude for doing so.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. Swifty@ has mastered the art of making anything look easy. A self-taught programmer, Swifty@ is able to create programs that perform tasks with ease and efficiency.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. While many people may find themselves in situations where they need to perform a complex task quickly, Swifty@ is able to accomplish tasks like this without difficulty. The name derives from the fact that he can type faster than you can say "@".

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. Swifty@ is a software development company that specializes in creating applications for Apple's iPhone. The company's founder, @joshuamper (@swift), is one of the best programmers in the world.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. Swifty@ is a computer programmer who works for Google Inc., where he develops software for the company's search engine. His nickname comes from his habit of tweeting messages while working.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. The name comes from his habit of tweeting in 140 characters or less. Although Swifty@ has gained popularity among others, it is also used by him to describe himself. His nickname is a reference to his penchant for simplicity and efficiency.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. The name derives from the first three letters of his middle initial, S., which were added to create the word "swift," which means swiftness. Swifty is a person who can accomplish anything quickly and effortlessly.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. He was born in New York City and grew up in the Bronx. As a child, he played sports and enjoyed playing catch with friends. At age nine, he enrolled at Hunter College High School where he excelled academically.

His sobriquet of @Swifty@ reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. While many people are familiar with the term @, few know what it means. The word @ is derived from the first letter of the words "automated," which refers to the way computers operate.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood spurted onto the operating table, where it pooled around the blade. It would have to wait until after the operation. As he worked, the doctor glanced over at his assistant who was busy working on another patient.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood spurted out onto the operating table. Blood dripped down into a bucket below him. It was a gruesome sight, but the patient was dead.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood flowed freely down his hand, and he wiped off the blade. He looked up at you, and smiled.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood spurted onto the operating table. The doctor looked down at the wound and began to cut into the patient's arm. Blood ran freely down the incision and splattered against the sterile white walls of the operating room.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood spurted out onto the operating table. As he continued to cut into the man's chest, he noticed something strange: the man was breathing.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood spurted onto the operating table. He paused to wipe his hands off on a white lab coat before continuing.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood spilled onto the operating table. A second blade sliced open the vein supplying the other leg. Blood flowed into a bag, where it was pumped back into the body of the dying man.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood spurted out onto the operating table. Blood poured down into a bucket, where it pooled and dried. A nurse came over to check on him, but she did not notice anything amiss.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood gushed forth, splashing into the surgical assistant's face. She cried out in pain and fell back onto her chair. Her eyes were wide open, staring at him with fear and confusion.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood flowed freely into a bag, where it would later be collected. A nurse helped him fill the bag with ice cubes. The patient died shortly after he arrived at the hospital.

The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood spurted onto the operating table, where it pooled and began to clot. He removed the clotted blood with another surgical blade. As he did so, he noticed something odd: his hand was covered in dried blood.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The patient's skin was also severely burned, so the burn nurse had to apply a second layer of bandages. When the doctor removed the first layer of bandages, he found that it was torn off at one corner.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The patient's face was also badly swollen from a previous surgery. As the surgeon worked, he noticed something else: the man's eyes were closed. After several minutes of probing, the surgeon found that the object was a small piece of glass.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The patient's face was covered with debris, so the surgeon had to remove large amounts of skin and fat to reach the bullet. A doctor examines a gunshot wound.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The incision had also left a large hole in the patient's chest cavity, and the man died shortly after being removed from the operating room. A few months later, another doctor performed surgery on a similar patient who survived without complications.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The patient died several hours after surgery. When the doctor finished removing the body part, he found that the bone had broken off and fallen into his lap.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The patient was conscious when the doctor began working on him, but his eyes were closed and he seemed to be sleeping. When the surgeon reached into the man's chest cavity, he found a small plastic bag containing a tiny amount of cocaine.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The patient's blood contained no clotting factors, so the transfusion of whole blood would cause the patient to bleed out uncontrollably. In this situation, a blood substitute such as platelets would be more effective.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The doctor was able to remove the object, but the patient died shortly after. The doctor did not know what caused the death, and he was unable to determine whether the object lodged itself into a vital organ or not.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The patient's face was swollen and covered with blood, but the doctor managed to remove the object. It turned out to be a small metal ball bearing that had broken off a bicycle wheel.

The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The doctor then removed the object, which turned out to be a piece of bone. A small hole had been left behind where the bone should have gone. The patient died shortly after being operated upon.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The name comes from the Latin word incisum, meaning "to cut." It is also called the coral snake because of its resemblance to coral. Coral snakes can grow up to three feet long and weigh more than a hundred pounds.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The genus Crotalus is known for having the largest number of species in the world. It includes over 500 genera and more than 2000 species.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The snake's shape is similar to that of a cross between a cobra and a viper. It can grow up to 15 feet long, although some specimens reach lengths of 20 feet or more.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The coloration of the body and the patterning of the scales give it a more reptilian appearance. It is also one of only three species found in North America that can grow to over five feet long.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The word incisor comes from Latin "incus," meaning "to cut." This is because the incision into the skin is made with a sharp instrument called a scalpel.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The term "incisor" comes from the Latin word for tooth, meaning that the teeth are like serrated scissors. Incisors are used to cut food into bite-sized pieces so that they can be swallowed whole.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The coloration of the snake varies greatly depending on where it lives. Most species have black or dark brown coloring, although some are greenish-brown or even white. Some species can also produce a light blue color when threatened.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The species is also known as the coral snake because of its coloration. It is found throughout tropical and subtropical regions of the world, including Australia, Africa, Asia and South America.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The shape of the body also helps distinguish it from other lizards. It is one of only three species in the genus Crotalus, along with the grass snake and coral snake.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The incisors of the cobra are used for biting and tearing flesh. They also serve as weapons when necessary. When threatened, the snake will release venom into its victim's eyes, causing blindness and eventually death.

The incise skin of the snake gives it a distinct look from other snakes. The name comes from the fact that when you cut into one, there appears to be a snake inside.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The cat represented the human being, while the inscription above the tableau represents the animal world. A cat's life is short and cats are prone to die prematurely.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The piece of art was titled "The Cat That Loved Me," and was painted by the French artist Paul Cézanne. It depicts a cat sitting on a couch reading a book.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The inscription reads: "The Cat Loved Me More Than You Will Ever Know." The inscription was inscribed on a piece of marble by the author's wife after she found the dead cat in her husband's study one day.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The carving was later sold at Sotheby's in London for $2 million. It depicts a cat sitting on a stone bench holding its tail while gazing upward. Its eyes are closed and its mouth is open, revealing a smile.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The inscription reads: "In memory of my dear friend, Mr. M. E. Fitch, who passed away yesterday morning." A memorial service was held in the author's home where he wrote a poem dedicated to his friend.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The image of the cat's body lying beside the tableau was used in a book she wrote about her experiences with cats.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The inscription reads: "To my dear Cat, I love you more than anything in the world." She wrote this tribute to her cat because she felt that it represented her innermost feelings toward him.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The carving depicts a black cat sitting beside a white cat, both staring intently into each other's eyes. This image is reminiscent of the painting "The Marriage of Heaven and Hell," by Leonardo da Vinci.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The image of the cat, curled up on a couch in front of a fireplace, appears to represent death. The inscription reads: "The Cat Died Today.

When her cat died, the famous writer had his beloved pet incised in a marble tableau just above her writing desk. The cat's body was placed on top of a book titled The Art of Writing. Her desk is adorned with other works by writers including William Faulkner, Ernest Hemingway and James Joyce.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She said she would need to take some blood and draw some fluid from you. The doctor took your pulse while holding your hand over the wound and then started to give you antibiotics. You were given pain medication, but no anesthesia.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She was concerned that if she did not, the infection would spread and kill her. The patient needed to be seen immediately.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She then asked me what I thought. I told her that there were no antibiotics to treat the infection and that it was likely going to spread throughout my body and kill me.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She said the only way to do so without causing further damage would be to remove part of my left testicle.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She went into detail about how the wound needed to be cleaned thoroughly before she could start working on it. The doctor explained that because of her busy schedule, she did not have time to go back home and get supplies for the job.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She said she would need to keep you overnight in the operating room so that her skills would be better prepared when she operated on you tomorrow. The surgeon said he needed more time to prepare himself before he could operate on you.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She also said that the wound needed to heal before she could continue her treatment. The doctor then left the room while I sat there waiting for my turn.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She then took a small piece of gauze and began to apply it around the cut. The wound continued bleeding profusely until she stopped applying pressure.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She explained that she did not want to risk damaging the surrounding tissue, so she would need to make a small incision and then pull back the skin.

The doctor said she would have to incise the wound in order to clean out the infection. She told me I should go home and rest, but I insisted on seeing my son. When we arrived at the hospital, the nurse informed us that he was already under general anesthesia.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. They removed the entire mass, including any surrounding lymph nodes, and then placed him under general anesthesia so that they could monitor his condition over time. The surgery took three hours and left the patient unconscious for several more hours.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. The doctors said that there was no way to stop the growth of the tumor without removing part of his stomach and intestines.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. The surgeons removed the tumor, but unfortunately the patient died shortly after surgery. The doctors were unable to remove the tumor because there was no blood supply to it.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. The surgeon was able to remove the tumor without damaging any surrounding organs. However, due to the nature of the surgery, there will be some residual damage to the patient's body.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. They then removed the entire mass of tissue and placed him under general anesthesia. The operation took three hours and resulted in no lasting damage to his body. The doctors said that he would recover fully within one year.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. The doctors then removed the tumor. They used a laser to burn away the surrounding tissue, leaving only bone and brain matter behind. After the surgery, Dr.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. The doctors were unable to remove the tumor because of the nature of the disease. They had no other options except surgery and chemotherapy.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. The doctor said that the only way to cure him would be to remove the entire tumor. If you ask me, I think that's just plain crazy. There is no evidence that removing tumors cures anything except death.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. The doctors were unable to remove the tumor because the bone marrow had already stopped producing white blood cells necessary for fighting off infection. Without adequate immune system function, the patient died within a few weeks.

The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. They then removed the tumor. The doctors did not perform surgery because the patient would have died without it. However, the procedure was performed under general anesthesia, which causes unconsciousness and death within minutes.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what type of incision he wanted me to make and he said that he didn't know. The nurse came back and told me that I needed to decide whether or not I was going to have surgery today.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what kind of incision he would make and how much time it would take. He told me to wait while he went into the operating room to get some equipment.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what kind of incision he wanted me to make. He told me that he did not want to cut into my face because it was important for me to feel the pain.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what kind of incision he wanted me to make. He said that he didn't know, but that it had to be deep enough so the pus wouldn't come back up.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what type of incision he wanted me to make. He said he didn't know and wouldn't be able to tell me until after the operation.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what kind of incision he wanted me to make. He said it didn't matter because we were going to need more stitches after the operation so I should just follow his instructions.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what kind of incision he would make. He told me to take off my shirt and bend over.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what kind of incision he wanted me to make and he told me that he did not know.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what kind of incision he would make. He replied, "Just like you did last time." The next day when we met again he told me to come back in a few hours so that he could perform the operation.

The surgeon said my nose was infected and that he would have to incise it. I asked him what kind of incision he needed to make and why he needed to do it.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The doctor was unable to identify the organism because it was too small and contained within a tiny capsule. After several attempts, the surgeon finally located the source of the infection: a microscopic parasite living inside a snail shell.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The surgeon then used a scalpel blade to cut open the skin and remove the pus. After removing the pus, he wrapped the wound with gauze and sent the patient home.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The patient died shortly after surgery. The surgeon was horrified when he realized what he had done and immediately stopped performing operations.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The patient was then given antibiotics, which were effective in killing off the bacteria causing the infection. A similar situation might occur when a doctor examines a patient and finds that there is no infection.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The doctor then placed the finger into a syringe filled with antiseptic solution and injected it into the wound. After several minutes, the patient began to feel better.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The patient would then die shortly after the operation. The surgery was performed by Dr. John Burchardt (1888–1952).

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The patient was a man suffering from tuberculosis. The doctor used a scalpel to cut open the skin around the infected wound and found that it contained pus and bacteria.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The patient was a man suffering from tuberculosis, and the doctor needed to perform surgery to remove the tubercle bacillus from the patient's body.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The doctor then placed the arm in a solution of iodine and water, washed off the blood, and bandaged it. After several hours the patient recovered sufficiently to leave the hospital.

The surgeon could not find the source of the infection until he took another look and incised an infected wound on the patient's arm. The doctor then looked at the x-ray and saw that the arm had a large hole in it. A simple X-Ray would have revealed this.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The procedure took approximately one hour and the patient was then transported to a local hospital where he would undergo surgery to remove the tumor.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The procedure took about ten minutes. The patient was then taken back into the operating room where the surgeon performed another operation to remove a piece of her stomach. Afterward she was put on a gurney and driven home.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The surgery took several hours and he used a special instrument called a micro-keratomileusis to make the incision. It was the first time anyone had successfully removed a tumor like this without damaging surrounding healthy tissue.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The surgeon used a high-powered scalpel to remove the tumor. Both procedures were performed under local anesthesia, which caused no pain. It was only after the surgery that the surgeons realized that they had left behind some of the surrounding normal tissue.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The procedure took approximately one hour and the patient was then placed under general anesthesia. While the operation itself was relatively simple, the recovery process was quite arduous. It would take several hours before the patient regained consciousness and could communicate with medical personnel.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The patient complained of a burning sensation when the surgeon used the laser to remove the tumor. The procedure took about 20 minutes, and afterward the patient reported feeling better.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The surgeon used a scalpel blade to remove the abnormal tissue.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The surgeon used a scalpel to remove the tumor. Both procedures were performed without any pain medication or other aids. The surgeon said that while there was no doubt that the surgery was successful, he did feel like he had just run a marathon.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The procedure took four hours. It would take a week before the wound healed completely. The patient, a man in his mid-forties, had suffered a stroke while working on another job several years ago.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The procedure took several hours, and after the surgeon left the operating room, the patient remained still. A few minutes later, when another doctor entered the room, he saw that there were no signs of movement on this patient's body.

The doctor had to use a high-powered laser to incise the abnormal tissue. The laser is so powerful that it can burn through bone and muscle without causing injury. The procedure was successful, but the doctor would like to perform the same operation with less power. Could a simple computerized machine be used instead?

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She knew she would need more time to make the operation successful. Her supervisor suggested that she perform a laparotomy, where the surgeon cuts into the chest cavity and removes part of the lung to allow for better air flow.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She found herself in a quandary when she tried to find a surgical instrument that would allow her to perform the operation without causing excessive bleeding.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She decided to try something new: she would play the recording of the patient's lungs being played back on an old phonograph. The operation went well and the cancerous growth was removed.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She thought she might need a new technique that would allow her to perform the operation more easily. A colleague suggested that she try cutting into the patient's heart.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She sought a specialist who specialized in the field of medicine. The doctor she found was Dr. Robert White, whose specialty was surgery.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She decided to try something new: she would perform surgery while wearing a virtual reality headset. The surgeon was able to operate successfully without any complications.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She consulted several surgeons before she found one who agreed to perform the operation without charge. The surgery went well and the patient survived. However, after the operation, the surgeon discovered that there were no tumors in her lungs and that she was healthy.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She decided to try something new: she would perform surgery while wearing a virtual reality headset. The surgeon would operate on the patient without actually seeing him or her, only hearing sounds and images projected onto a screen in front of her eyes.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She wanted to remove the tumor, but she did not know how to perform the operation. A colleague suggested that she consult an expert in surgery. The doctor agreed to see him, but only after making arrangements for her assistant to accompany her.

The general surgeon was frustrated by her inability to incise the tumor from the patient's lung. She decided to perform surgery without anesthesia because she felt that the operation would be more successful if she were able to feel the patient's pain. The surgeon was unable to find any suitable anesthetic and finally resorted to administering morphine.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. The thought of eating something so disgusting caused her to gag and cry. She was just happy that she could get away with cutting them out without anyone knowing what she did. It seemed like a simple task, but one that required precision and skill.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. She had no idea how many cookies she actually needed to make to fill her cart full of the little treats. The next day, when she returned home, she found that there were indeed more smiling smiles than usual in her kitchen.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. She probably did not even know what a smiley face was. It was only after she ate the last cookie that she realized how much pain she had experienced.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. She did however continue to make these cookies for other people and kept the recipe. The only thing that changed was she no longer used the cookie cutter, instead she used a sharp knife.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. She had no idea what she was missing when she cut out the smiley faces. The next day, however, while cutting out a new batch of cookies, she found herself wishing that she had done so earlier.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. The cookie cutter was too expensive, and the process time consuming. She would need to find a cheaper way to produce these cookies.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. The process of making the cookies involved a lot of time, effort and money. It was also something that she did every day. She had no idea how much it cost to buy ingredients and pay people to help her produce them.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. The smiley faces were just too cute! She might even start making them into little dolls instead. However, after eating the cookies, she realized that there was something odd about her arm. It felt strange and sore.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. The only thing that could possibly save her from making more of these cookies would be a miracle. A miracle occurred when she met the man who would become her husband. Her husband was a baker and he happened to own a bakery shop.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. She probably did not even know what a smiley face was. It is possible that Jane never knew how to make the simple facial expression of happiness because she had no experience making those expressions before.

After Jane incise her arm on the metal cookie cutter she used to cut out laughing cookies, it was unlikely that she would ever make another batch of smiling sweets again. The next day she took the cookie cutter apart and found that the mechanism had broken down. She replaced it with a new one, but then noticed that there were no more smiling smiles to be found.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The protesters were members of the radical group known as the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW). They were protesting against Senator Joseph McCarthy's witch hunt into communist subversion in America.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The man was charged with assault and disorderly conduct, and later convicted. Senator Miller was not injured in the incident.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The protester was identified as William Jennings Bryan, a former presidential candidate who advocated for abolition of slavery and temperance.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The nails were so sharp that they penetrated his skin and blood poured down onto him. A large crowd gathered around the scene, some filming the incident while others took photographs of the wound.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The incident resulted in a loss of facial hair, and the protesters wore masks to conceal their identity. It is possible that some of these masked demonstrators were members of Anonymous.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The man held up a sign reading: "I'm Not A Racist, But...".

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The protestor was later identified as John Nichols, a political activist and former member of the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS). SDS was one of several student organizations that protested against the Vietnam War.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The man was subsequently arrested and charged with assault. Although the incident did not result in any serious injury, it was still considered a significant event because it demonstrated the potential for violence to erupt at political rallies.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The man was later identified as James Earl Ray, Jr., a member of the Ku Klux Klan. Ray claimed that he did not remember what happened during the melee. However, in 1975 he admitted to killing Martin Luther King Jr.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The protestor claimed that Miller's vote against the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was racist because he supported Jim Crow laws.

During the altercation, senator Miller's face was incised by a protester's fingernails. The man was arrested and charged with assault. Senator Miller was not injured, but the incident caused him to lose some of his support among conservative Republicans. A few months later, he resigned from office.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The surgery took four hours and she died shortly after. The doctor said that the heart would have to be removed due to the damage done.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The operation is successful, but the woman dies shortly after. Her death is attributed to complications of the surgery and she died within hours of being operated upon.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The procedure takes several hours and the patient will need to rest for the next few days.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The operation is successful, but the patient dies shortly after. Dr.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The woman's heart is a good size, but she does not have enough blood flow to keep it pumping properly.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The surgery is successful and she survives. Her recovery time will depend upon how much blood she loses during the operation.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The procedure takes approximately five minutes and the patient recovers within a few hours. A nurse checks on the patient every so often to make sure she doesn't bleed to death from her wound.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The procedure takes several hours, and she will need to rest for a few days before the wound heals. She is given painkillers so that she does not feel any pain while recovering. A doctor examines her wounds after the surgery.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The operation is successful, but she dies shortly after leaving the hospital. Her death is attributed to complications resulting from the surgery itself.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The operation is successful and she survives. She becomes a celebrity because of her miraculous recovery.

The surgeon inciseopen the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The operation is successful, but the patient dies shortly after. A few years later, Dr.

The knife was so sharp that it incise the skin. The blade cut into flesh and bone, leaving deep wounds. It sliced through muscle and fat, making the victim bleed profusely. Blood poured down the blade and onto the ground where it pooled around the body.

The knife was so sharp that it incise the skin. The blade was so long that it reached the ground. It was so thin that it cut through the air like a missile. And yet, despite all this, there were no marks left behind by its flight.

The knife was so sharp that it incise the skin. The blade was sharp enough to cut through bone and flesh. The handle was smooth and comfortable to hold. It glistened in the moonlight.

The knife was so sharp that it incise the skin. The blade cut deep into the flesh and blood flowed freely. The victim screamed loudly, but no one paid any attention to him.

The knife was so sharp that it incise the skin. The blade cut deep into the fleshy part of her neck, slicing through bone and muscle. Her eyes were wide open when she fell to the ground. She looked like a corpse lying there, lifeless.

The knife was so sharp that it incise the skin. The blade cut into flesh and bone. Blood flowed freely from the wound. A man lay there bleeding profusely, his face contorted in pain and terror.

The knife was so sharp that it incise the skin. The blade cut into the flesh, cutting deep enough to cause blood loss. It was then that I realized what a terrible thing it was to kill someone. My hand trembled as I drew my sword.

The knife was so sharp that it incise the skin. The blade cut into flesh, leaving only a scarred stump where the bone used to be.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The patient's face was covered with blood, and she was unconscious. She lay motionless on the operating table while the surgeon worked. Her eyes were closed, her mouth open and there was no movement in her limbs.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The surgeon used a scalpel blade to cut through the skin, and then he placed a piece of gauze over the wound. A thin layer of blood would eventually collect around the edge of the wound.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The patient was conscious and alert, but her breathing became labored. She had suffered a severe brain injury due to blunt force trauma to the head. Her blood pressure dropped dramatically and she died shortly after arrival at the hospital.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The surgeon removed the bullet fragments and bandages, then used a scalpel to cut open the chest cavity. A needle was inserted into the heart and blood pressure was measured before blood flow to the body was restored.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The surgeon then used a scalpel to cut open the skin and remove the dead flesh. Then, the patient lay back down on his bed while the surgical team worked around him.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The surgeon removed the injured limb and placed it back into the body bag. They then continued working on other patients until all were done.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The patient's blood pressure dropped precipitously and she died within minutes. It was only after the surgery that it became apparent that the bleeding had stopped. After the death of the patient, Dr.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The surgeon continued cutting into the skull until the brain stem was removed. At this point the patient would usually fall unconscious. After removing the brain, surgeons would then cut open the neck to remove blood vessels and other organs.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The patient was unconscious, so the surgeon had to operate quickly and carefully. It would take several hours before the patient regained consciousness enough to ask questions.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The surgeon performed the operation, but the patient died before reaching full recovery.

The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The patient was lying on the operating table and was bleeding profusely. Dr.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman would then take a piece of the flesh and dip it into oil, let it cool and slice off the top layer of skin. When he had finished, he would throw away the bottom layer of skin.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman would cut into the flesh with a sharpened stick. A dull knife would leave the skin exposed and more susceptible to infection.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman used his thumb to push down on the blade until it cut through the flesh and skin without causing any blood loss. As technology advances, fishermen will continue to find new ways to improve their skills.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman used a sharpened stick instead.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman would then cut off the fruit and throw it back into the sea. It was only after this method of preparation that tomatoes were considered edible.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman used a serrated fish hook instead. The fisherman's choice of tool was based upon the nature of the catch and how much time he had left before the next day's fishing trip began.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman would take the knife and cut off the end of the tomato, then he would put it into a vat of water where it would remain until it turned red.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman would cut off the top part of the fruit and then carefully remove the seeds, leaving only a few soft little nubs inside. Then he'd throw away the rest of it.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman cut the tomato into strips and placed them onto skewers, whereupon he would dip each piece of flesh into boiling water until it was tender enough to eat. It took him three hours to fish one pound of tomatoes.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman would cut off the top of the fruit and then dip it into water to remove any seeds inside. They were careful not to damage the flesh underneath, because they knew that if they did, it might fall apart when eaten later.

The fishing knife was so dull it could not incise the skin of the tomato. The fisherman used a sharpened piece of wood to cut the skin off the fruit, then he would dip the knife into some oil and apply pressure until the flesh peeled away.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They were also disappointed when President Reagan vetoed legislation that would have allowed people to carry concealed weapons into federal buildings. The NRA then went back home to Chicago, where they organized another convention and held their annual meeting there.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They then decided to hold a rally in front of the Lincoln Memorial, where they were met by hundreds of anti-gun protesters. The NRA claimed that their goal was to prevent gun control legislation.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They then moved on to other cities across America, including Chicago and New York City. The NRA has also taken advantage of the proliferation of video games consoles and handheld gaming systems, which allow users to play interactive computer programs.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They decided to hold another rally at the Lincoln Memorial, but after several weeks of planning they discovered that President Johnson would not attend.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They were also disappointed to learn that the federal government did not want any part of gun control legislation. The NRA was forced to abandon their efforts and return home.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They were soon joined by other gun rights groups, including the National Association for Gun Rights (NAGR), the Second Amendment Foundation (SAF) and the Citizens Committee for the Right to Keep and Bear Arms (CCRKBA).

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They were even more dismayed when President Kennedy refused to meet with them. The NRA was forced to leave Washington after only one day, but the group continued to organize rallies and protests around the country.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They did manage to organize a rally in front of the White House, however, and several members of Congress attended. The NRA's influence on American politics reached new heights after the assassination attempt on President Kennedy in 1963.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They were determined to keep the issue alive, however, and began holding rallies around the country. The NRA held that gun control laws would only lead to more violence because criminals would obtain guns illegally. Thus, they advocated a ban on handguns altogether.

Having rented every available room in town, the NRA arrived in Washington, where they were dismayed to find their paucity of supporters. They had hoped to rally support among gun owners, but found that few people owned guns and many did not care much for the organization. The NRA's influence waned quickly after the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The lack of rain has caused the country's crops to wither and die. Because there is no water available for agriculture, people have resorted to growing cassava, a root vegetable, for subsistence purposes.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The rains were so scanty that farmers did not get enough to plant their crops. The resulting drought led to hunger and unrest, and the government responded by sending troops into the area.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The rainy season typically runs from May to October, but this year the rains failed to arrive until November. Rainfall was so scarce that farmers were unable to plant crops and consequently lost their livelihoods.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The lack of rain causes soil erosion, which can lead to desertification. Desertification leads to severe water shortages, leading to starvation and disease.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The lack of rain has led to a decline in crop yields, which have resulted in widespread hunger throughout the country. A large portion of the population is dependent upon subsistence farming and relies on the crops grown for survival.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The rains were supposed to begin in September, but the rainy season did not start until October. As a result, farmers did not sow enough crops this year to feed themselves and their families.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The rainy season lasts from June until September and the lack of rain has resulted in drought conditions. It is estimated that over one million people will need humanitarian assistance.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The lack of rain has caused severe drought conditions throughout much of the country. As a result, farmers have abandoned their fields and livestock to seek refuge in nearby towns where they will sell what little they can afford on the black market.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The drought has affected the entire Sahel region, affecting crops, livestock and water supplies.

The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The drought has affected much of Africa, including some of the poorest nations in the world. Many people there are forced to migrate to neighboring countries seeking food supplies. They then turn to agriculture in order to make ends meet.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The Pirate Party is trying to re-establish itself in the wake of this tragedy. Its platform calls for protection of intellectual property rights, free trade agreements that benefit American workers and a reduction in government regulation.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The Pirate Party is a political party founded in 2009 that advocates for freedom of expression, civil liberties and the rights of artists and other creative people.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The pirate community has largely moved on to other activities, but there remains a small group of dedicated pirates who continue to conduct illegal operations against ships and trade routes. Many of these pirates are still active today.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The last known pirate ship was destroyed by the Spanish navy in 1540. There were no more pirates after that. However, there will always be those who would seek to profit from piracy, whether it is illegal or not.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The only remaining pirate crews are those that were previously affiliated with other groups, and many of these groups no longer exist. Pirates will continue to operate outside the law until they can no longer do so without being caught.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The only remaining member is the leader of the group, Jack Sparrow, who uses his position to organize a pirate crew. With no real leadership structure to speak of, he assembles a small band of pirates led by Barbossa.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The Pirate Party will continue to exist as a new political party dedicated to the preservation of free speech and intellectual property rights. We believe that technology should serve the public good, not hinder it.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The Pirate Party of America will continue to exist, but as a non-profit organization dedicated to the preservation of free speech and intellectual property rights.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The Pirate Party of America has successfully revived itself as a political party, and has become more visible in national politics. It is now seeking to expand into other states where it can better serve its goals.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The Pirate Party is one of many organizations that arose to fill the void. Its members believe that the government should be more responsive to citizens and less concerned with protecting private property.

With the recent jailing of most of its leaders for piracy, and the pitiful paucity of what was left of its members, the organization is now effectively extinct. The last known pirate ship was sunk off the coast of Jamaica in 1719. As pirates were considered outlaws, their names were not recorded in historical records and no further information exists regarding their activities.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. The only person willing to volunteer was a man named John, who had volunteered earlier in the week when he helped clear snow off the driveway.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. The volunteer drive was a failure. They were all going to die anyway, so why bother? One man said, "I don't want to go down there again." Another added, "It wasn't my idea.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. The task seemed impossible and the participants were so exhausted that they would fall asleep while working on the project. They spent three months trying to complete a simple puzzle involving shapes, lines and numbers.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. They were asked to volunteer instead, and they did so without hesitation. The volunteers spent the next three months working together to build a bridge over the Mississippi River, the longest suspension bridge ever built in North America.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. They were asked to volunteer because of the generosity of the people who gave them food, shelter and clothing. The men worked on building a bridge across the Mississippi River in Missouri, while the women labored in a cotton gin in Arkansas.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. They didn't want to go into the woods because they knew there would be nothing to eat, so they went back home. The only thing that kept them going was the hope that someone else might come along and volunteer.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. No one except you. You volunteered to go on the mission because you saw a chance to save someone else's life, and your own. The others would probably never see another human again after what happened last time.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. The only reason why anyone showed up was because someone else had volunteered. There was no need for a volunteer coordinator to ensure everyone's participation.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. The group was led by a man named John Galt. They lived in a small house with one room, where they worked hard day after day producing the best book you've ever seen called A Modest Proposal.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. The volunteer system was so dysfunctional that when the National Guard arrived, there was little resistance. They marched into Ferguson and set up checkpoints along major roads leading into town.

They came from four different states and were separated by hundreds of miles, but the paucity of volunteers was unmistakable: no-one wanted to help out. No one except for you. You're going to go out there and try to get your friends together again!

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. He does so because he enjoys eating, not because he is being fussy. The more choices available to him, the better off he will be.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. The chef serves him various foods such as scrambled eggs, bacon and hash browns. He also enjoys a variety of drinks including coffee, tea and orange juice.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. He eats eggs over easy, bacon, sausage links, pancakes with syrup and maple syrup, fried chicken and waffles. He also enjoys fruit smoothies. A few times he has gone without eating for several hours.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. The more time he spends at the buffet, the better he enjoys each bite. He does not seem to get bored eating there.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. The phrase "eat what you like" is used here to mean one should try new things. One might also say that he eats whatever he wants because he likes it, and not necessarily because there is anything particularly nutritious about it.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. The problem is that he doesn't really care what kind of food it is, so long as it tastes good. He eats ice cream sundaes, chocolate chip cookies and even fried chicken.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. The only thing he can't seem to get enough of is coffee. Coffee is a beverage that contains caffeine, which helps keep him alert and focused. It also provides a quick energy boost that allows him to perform his job duties without distraction.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. The American tradition of eating breakfast has been around since before the Civil War, when the first children were fed eggs and bacon at home. Breakfast became a time for socializing among families, friends and neighbors.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. The reason for this is because he enjoys eating and does not feel the need to conform to societal norms. This individual prefers foods that are unfamiliar, unusual or even strange to those that are familiar.

Despite the paucity of offerings at the breakfast buffet, he manages to eat a wide variety of food. The human body can handle a wide range of foods, so long as they are prepared properly. While many people believe that eating too much will make you fat, the opposite is true: overeating causes weight gain.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. The lack of female role models in the field is one factor. Another reason is that men tend to dominate these fields because they are more likely to possess skills necessary for success.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One of the primary reasons is that they lack confidence in their abilities to perform well in these subjects.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One factor is the perception that these subjects are boring and uninteresting. Another reason is the perceived lack of intellectual stimulation in other areas of education.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One factor is the difficulty of learning such skills. Another factor is the lack of role models within these fields.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. The lack of gender balance in these fields is due to the absence of female role models in these areas. Women are discouraged from pursuing careers in math and science because there are few examples of successful women mathematicians and scientists.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One factor is the gender stereotype that men prefer to pursue activities involving physical activity and women prefer to engage in social interaction. Another reason cited for the lack of female interest in STEM careers is that females are underrepresented in those fields due to discrimination.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One factor is the perception that men are better suited for such jobs because of their greater physical strength. Another reason cited is the perceived lack of social skills required in these fields.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One reason might be the widespread use of cell phones in schools, which have led to girls being exposed to technology earlier than boys.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One of the reasons cited is the belief that men tend to be more competitive and women less so. Another reason is that women are expected to take care of children while men are encouraged to pursue careers outside the home.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One factor is the perception that these fields are "men's jobs," and thus men tend to avoid them. Another reason cited is the perceived lack of social status associated with such careers.

The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One factor is the perception that such fields are too difficult, while another factor is the perception that these fields require a lot of time away from one's family. The latter reason may explain why more men are entering these traditionally female-dominated fields.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The judge ruled that the jury should consider only the evidence presented at trial. In other words, no more hearsay testimony. It is likely that the jurors would have found him guilty had they heard it anyway.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The jury found him guilty and sentenced him to death.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The judge found that the defendant did not intend to kill the victim, but merely wanted to rob him. This finding was upheld by the jury.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The court found the defendant guilty and sentenced him to death. A few months later, the Supreme Court reversed the decision. Justice William O.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The jury found him guilty and sentenced him to death. A panel of three judges reviewed the evidence and ultimately determined that the defendant was indeed present when the killing occurred. They also concluded that there was no physical evidence linking him to the scene.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The judge found the defendant guilty and sentenced him to death.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The judge did not believe the testimony of the prosecution witnesses because they failed to explain how a person could be at another location when they knew where the victim was.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The jury found him guilty of first degree manslaughter.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The court ruled that the prosecution failed to establish a prima facie case against the defendant. The judge stated that there was no proof beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant committed the crime.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The prosecution presented testimony from witnesses who testified that the defendant was seen leaving the victim's house shortly after the crime occurred. They also showed photographs of the defendant taken before and after the crime.

Despite the paucity of evidence, the lawyers were able to prove that the defendant was elsewhere at the time of the crime. The defense attorney argued that the defendant was too busy enjoying himself with his friends to commit the crime. However, the prosecution pointed out that there were witnesses who saw him at various times on the night of the crime.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. The reader will find no argumentation here that would convince him that I am right. It is my opinion only, and nothing more.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. The author does not provide any new information nor do I find anything worth noting in his argumentation. It is merely a collection of old ideas and observations.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. It does not even attempt to address the question of whether technology is good or bad. Its main concern is how people are using it, and what implications this has for human behavior.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. The author attempts to provide evidence for his assertions, but without any substance. It would seem that the author is attempting to justify his own opinions rather than presenting a reasoned argument.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. The author is guilty of attempting to make a point by resorting to innuendo and sensationalism.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. The author has no real knowledge of history, philosophy or other disciplines. He makes claims without supporting evidence and relies upon the reader's ignorance of the subject matter to support his assertions.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. The author does not provide any real evidence to support his assertions. It seems that the author has only read some books written by others and then extrapolated from those writings what he believes to be true.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. I am confident that my readers will find something new to think about and perhaps even some new insights into current events. I hope you will join me in this effort.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. The author does not even attempt to address the issues raised in this essay. It is clear that he did not read any of my essays, because there is no argument presented in this essay.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. The author has no real understanding of the subject matter, and therefore fails to provide any useful information. He does not even attempt to address the issues raised in his own text.

The ideas in this book are worthless owing to its paucity of solid arguments. The reader should take the author at his word when he says that he believes there is something important here. It seems to me that the book is more of a manifesto than a work of scholarship.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge asked the lawyer why he did not bring any evidence to support his claim. The lawyer replied that he was unable to because he had no money for legal fees.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge ordered the attorney to pay the court costs and then dismissed him. The lawyer was a little disappointed, but he quickly learned that the judge did not know what he wanted to do with himself.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge was perplexed by the lawyer's lack of experience in the law, and he asked him why he did not bring more evidence to support his argument. The lawyer replied that he could not because he lacked time.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge asked the lawyer why he did not seek help from a legal expert when he was charged with violating the terms of his probation. The lawyer replied that he had no time to waste and would need to defend himself before trial.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge asked the lawyer what he thought of the law. The lawyer replied: "I don't know anything about it.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge said that the lawyer's lack of legal training was not surprising since lawyers were supposed to know more about the law.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge was impressed when the attorney explained that he had no legal training whatsoever. It seemed that lawyers were generally well educated people who had studied hard for years to obtain their positions, yet they lacked the basic knowledge necessary to properly defend clients.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge said that the lawyer should have known that his client would not be able to pay because he did not read the contract carefully enough. A similar situation occurred when a woman sued her husband for failing to pay child support.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge then said: "I am surprised that you know so little of the law, since you represent your client.

The lawyer's paucity of knowledge of the law surprised the judge, who was expecting better from him. The judge then asked the lawyer why he did not provide any evidence to support his argument. The lawyer replied that he was unable to do so because he had no time to go into detail regarding the legal issues involved.

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The professor did not provide any examples of how the concepts presented were relevant to current events. Instead, he offered only one example: "A man walks into a bar and orders a beer." There was no discussion of the implications of this statement.

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The professor asked questions regarding the topic, but did not delve into the details of the material. She then went on to ask students to write a paper about what they learned and why they thought it would help them in their future studies.

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The professor had presented her ideas in a way that emphasized the need for students to think critically about what she said. She did not provide enough examples of how other people thought.

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The lecturer, Professor Kesselman, did not even attempt to address the topic of the day. Instead he focused on other topics such as the history of science and how the development of technology affected our understanding of nature.

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The professor's lecture covered only one aspect of the topic, namely how to design a computer program. As a result, students were unable to make connections between various aspects of the subject matter.

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The teacher did not want to make any promises, but she indicated that she would like students to explore the topic further. She also suggested that students consider other ways of dealing with the problem.

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The lecturer had only one slide show to convey her message and she did so very poorly. She failed to provide any context for the data presented, instead relying on hand waving and generalizations about the nature of technology.

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The professor's lecture covered many aspects of the subject, but did not address the issue of how the human mind works. How does one go about understanding something so complex?

The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The professor explained that there were no textbooks or other materials on the topic, so the students would need to research and learn about the subject themselves.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The subway system is a relic of the past, and many people rely upon private automobiles for their travel needs. Despite the fact that New York City has become more urbanized over time, there are still some areas where cars remain dominant.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The only way to get around town is by car. Many people drive to work because they cannot afford a train ticket, bus fare or taxi ride.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The subway system is so underfunded that it has no dedicated funding source other than fare revenue. Many people choose to drive instead, especially since there are many parking spaces within walking distance of their homes.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The subway system is limited to only three lines: the BMT Broadway Line, the IND Queens Boulevard Line and the MUNI Bayview–Hunters Point Line. A fourth line would allow for more frequent service throughout Manhattan.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The subway system, bus service and streetcars are all inadequate to meet the needs of the population. Some people prefer walking, others drive cars.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The only way to get around town is via car. There are no buses, subways or ferries running here. It would seem that people prefer to drive themselves to their destinations instead of relying on the convenience of public transit.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The only solution is to build more of it. There will always be people who prefer driving over public transport, but the trend toward walking and bicycling should continue to grow.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The only subway line in New York City is the 7 train, which runs from Times Square to Grand Central Station. It takes approximately fifteen minutes to get there, making it one of the slowest subways lines in the country.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The subway system is a relic of the past and the bus system is barely adequate to serve its current ridership. It would seem that there should be more mass transit options available to residents, especially those living in densely populated areas.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The subway system has been reduced to a series of subterranean tunnels where people sit and wait for trains that run frequently. There is no convenient way to get around town except by car, which is expensive and limited in range.

The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. The subway system has never really taken off here in part because of the cost and in part due to the lack of ridership. People prefer to walk instead, which means there is less demand for buses and trains.

The opening of Avatar passed almost unnoticed due to the paucity of science-fiction films currently playing. The film's plot is simple: a group of humans travel into a planetoid inhabited by intelligent animals called Na'vi, where they encounter hostile natives and learn how to survive there.

The opening of Avatar passed almost unnoticed due to the paucity of science-fiction films currently playing. The film, released in 2009, featured a young woman named Neytiri (Nina Hoss), a Na'vi girl raised by humans on Pandora.

The opening of Avatar passed almost unnoticed due to the paucity of science-fiction films currently playing. It was only after the release of The Matrix Reloaded that it became apparent that this film was no mere science fiction film.

The opening of Avatar passed almost unnoticed due to the paucity of science-fiction films currently playing. The film's plot concerns a group of people stranded on Pandora after a nuclear war destroys civilization. They live in primitive campsites and attempt to survive by hunting, fishing, gathering wild edibles and other activities.

The opening of Avatar passed almost unnoticed due to the paucity of science-fiction films currently playing. The film's plot centers around a group of people who are able to communicate telepathically with each other, which allows them to live together in harmony within a virtual environment.

The opening of Avatar passed almost unnoticed due to the paucity of science-fiction films currently playing. The film's plot concerns a group of humans stranded on Pandora, a planet inhabited by intelligent animals. They attempt to survive there while avoiding human predators and each other.

The opening of Avatar passed almost unnoticed due to the paucity of science-fiction films currently playing. The film was released in 2009 and featured a group of humans called the Na'vi who were able to communicate telepathically with one another. They lived in harmony with nature, but there were also some negative effects.

The opening of Avatar passed almost unnoticed due to the paucity of science-fiction films currently playing. The film was released in 2009 and won several awards including Best Picture, Director, Screenplay and Original Score.

The opening of Avatar passed almost unnoticed due to the paucity of science-fiction films currently playing. The film featured a technologically advanced civilization that lived in harmony with nature and were able to travel across vast distances without ever having to leave their home planet.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The criminal's need for privacy makes him a prime target for police surveillance. A manhunt is launched to apprehend the suspect.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. However, there are some places where criminals can find each other: bars, nightclubs and parties. The most common way for criminals to meet each other is through the use of alcohol.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The police can only arrest you once they find your body. However, there are other ways to avoid detection. One method is to commit a crime so heinous that no one will believe it happened.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. To compensate, criminals increasingly turn to the Internet to find information on how best to evade law enforcement. The proliferation of the World Wide Web has allowed people worldwide to communicate and share ideas more easily than ever before.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. If he does find one, there is no guarantee that the person will accept him into the group. Even if he manages to get accepted, the other members may reject him because of his reputation or because of some perceived slight against them.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The only thing that might help him is someone else who shares his interests. However, the more people you know, the less likely it is that one of them will come to your aid when needed.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The only way to guarantee his safety is to remain anonymous. Criminals rely upon subterfuge and deception.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The criminal's lack of social skills also makes him vulnerable to being caught and prosecuted. There are few opportunities for criminals to interact socially outside of prison or the occasional street crime.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The criminal's lack of social skills also makes him vulnerable to being discovered when he attempts to commit a crime. Criminals are often isolated from others due to their antisocial behavior, and thus they tend toward isolationism.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The police can't even locate him when they search his home. It would seem that criminals are more likely to commit crimes in public places where there is less chance of being caught.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. If he does find one, it will likely be a dangerous den of thieves and thugs. The only way to increase his odds is to become more daring.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The criminal is a loner, someone who does not socialize with others and therefore cannot get along with them. There are no other criminals like him because there are only so many people willing to go through life without any close relationships.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. A criminal needs someone to talk to, but no one wants to be around him when he talks. The only person who might help a criminal is another criminal.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The only way to avoid detection is to stay hidden until you are ready to strike. As the criminal becomes more successful, he will need better methods of hiding himself from the law.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. But there is always someone willing to help him. The criminal can turn to those around him, but he cannot rely on them for protection. Crime does not pay well and the criminals are usually poor.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The only way to avoid detection is to remain hidden. A thief needs no more than one friend who will help him steal something, so hiding oneself in plain sight can be very profitable.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The only thing that can help him is a safe house where he can keep his activities secret from others. A number of companies offer such services.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The criminal's lack of social skills also makes him vulnerable to those who can manipulate others into doing what the criminal wants.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The criminal's inability to maintain a social network makes him even less likely to find one. While there are many reasons why criminals choose to live underground, the main reason is the lack of opportunities for employment.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. As a result, criminals tend to be solitary creatures. They seek solitude because they are bored by the social interactions that occur within society.

The criminal's paucity of friends make his chances of finding a place to hide almost hopeless. The only way to avoid detection is to move quickly, leaving no trace of your presence. As crime becomes more difficult to commit because of technology, criminals are adopting new strategies in order to remain undetected.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The company's advertising campaign failed to address the issue. It was suggested that the product should focus more on marketing itself as opposed to being a gimmick.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The company did not advertise enough and failed to market effectively. A lack of marketing efforts resulted in the product being underpriced. Product development was also lacking, resulting in poor quality products.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The product was said to be too complicated and expensive for many consumers. However, the company did not make any changes to improve the product until after it failed to meet expectations.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The company did not advertise aggressively enough. It should also be noted that the products were sold primarily to women, thus making the product less appealing to men.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The company's chief executive officer, Mr. Smith, blamed the lack of awareness on the fact that the product was only available in one color: black.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The product was said to be too complicated and expensive for many consumers. However, the company did manage to sell enough units so that they were able to make more money in the future. This product would become known as the iPod.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The product did not appeal to consumers because it was too expensive. However, the company behind the product claimed that the product would become more affordable as demand grew and they would introduce new models with improved features.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The company's advertising campaign failed to resonate with consumers because it did not appeal to their values. In addition, the product was too expensive for many people.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The company blamed the lack of awareness on the fact that consumers were still unsure of what they should expect when purchasing a computer.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The product was found lacking in the market because consumers were unwilling to pay more money for it. Perhaps there is a lack of demand for this product due to a general dissatisfaction with the state of affairs in our current economic system.

The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. The market for such products is still relatively small, and consumers remain hesitant to purchase them due to the high cost of the equipment needed to operate them.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The lack of action was due in part to the fact that the government had lost control over many of its agencies.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The FBI was unable to investigate any of the cases because there were no leads. While some of the groups involved in such activities might have been loosely organized, others were well-organized and dangerous.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The FBI did not even investigate the deaths of Jonestown members Jim Jones and his wife, Mary Ann. They were too busy trying to prove that the Branch Davidians were planning to blow up a federal building in Waco, Texas.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The government did pass laws against human sacrifice, satanic worship and other forms of religious extremism. However, these laws were rarely enforced due to the lack of any solid proof that the groups actually existed.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The FBI did not even investigate the Jonestown massacre. It took several years before the truth about what happened there became known.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The FBI did conduct investigations into some of these groups, but failed to find any evidence of criminal activity. A few states passed laws against the possession and distribution of illegal drugs, but no significant prosecutions were made.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The only effective measure was to continue to allow the free flow of information about these groups and their activities. This meant that there were no laws against members of such organizations even though they might be operating openly without any official sanction.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The only real solution was to banish the problem by making it illegal to engage in any activity that would violate the tenets of a particular religious group.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The government's inability to stop the activities of such groups allowed them to continue operating without interference. However, the lack of action by law enforcement officials did not prevent members of these groups from continuing their nefarious activities.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The FBI and other federal agencies were unable to investigate the activities of groups like the Branch Davidians because there was no organized crime presence in Waco.

Despite the public's clamoring for a crackdown on shadowy cults, state law makers could not muster enough support to do anything about the paucity of evidence. The government did, however, take steps to curb the growth of religious groups that were deemed extremist. This meant that many churches would no longer receive tax exemptions and some might even lose their charitable status.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare's instinct is to avoid conflict, yet the situation demanded that she engage in combat. She did so because her survival was at stake. Her actions were motivated by fear rather than any desire for dominance or revenge.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The animal does not feel threatened when surrounded by many other animals. A single predator can overwhelm the hare in seconds, so the hare will flee before being killed.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare would run away when there were no other animals around to fight. It was only after humans began hunting wild game that the hare developed a fear of people.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare is a solitary animal, and the lack of competition for food means that it will typically stay away from conflict until there is no longer any threat. However, when confronted with another predator, the hare will flee.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare's instinct for survival is strong, but it does not allow it to respond quickly enough when faced with danger. When the hare runs away from danger, it loses its ability to flee and can only run until exhaustion takes over.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare is a solitary animal, so when it encounters another hare in the wild, it does not fight. It will even run away from other animals.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare is one of the few animals that will not fight when cornered. It does, however, flee when threatened. The hare's instinct for survival is what makes it so effective in hunting.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare does not fear predators because it lacks the instinctual fear of predators. It also has no natural defense against humans, so it flees when threatened.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The rabbit does not run away when cornered. Instead, it flees into the hills where it can escape predators. A rabbit will never run away from danger because it knows that death is imminent.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare will flee from danger when there is no threat nearby. When the threat becomes apparent, the hare will quickly return to its burrow and hide until it can escape again.

The hare's quick retreat to the burrow resulted from a paucity of fighting instincts. The hare's instinct is to run away when threatened. A rabbit will flee if attacked, but a hare would rather hide until the threat has passed.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The government has been unable to provide any compelling evidence that the conflict will result in any positive outcome. It is not clear what the long term consequences of continued violence might be.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The war was initiated without any serious discussion of alternatives.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The fact that there were no serious arguments against the war, either in favor or against it, indicates that people did not feel strongly about the issue. People also seemed to view the conflict as a necessary evil.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The United States did not seek to invade Iraq because Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction. Rather, the Bush administration sought to overthrow him after he invaded Kuwait in August 1990.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The public may also feel that the country is better off without foreign entanglements. However, there is little doubt that the conflict has contributed to a decline in American influence abroad and diminished America's ability to shape events in other countries.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The war did not take away any freedoms, but it also didn't bring about a better future. It was only when the U.S. government decided to invade Iraq that people began to question whether the war should continue or not.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The war was unpopular among citizens because of the cost and the perceived short term gains. The conflict also did not produce any tangible results for either side. War is a costly endeavor that does not yield immediate benefits.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. However, there were also those who opposed the war. The pacifist movement was particularly strong among intellectuals and artists. It was a common belief that war could only ever be waged because one side or another felt threatened by the other.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The lack of enthusiasm for the war is also understandable because the invasion did not achieve any objective other than creating a power vacuum that would allow al Qaeda to flourish. There were no gains for the U.S., only losses and death.

The lack of enthusiasm for the war is understandable, given the paucity of debate that preceded the military intervention. The issue of whether to go to war in Iraq was never debated by Congress or the American people. It was decided by President George W. Bush without any public discussion, much less approval.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. However, there are several professional sports teams in New Jersey. The New York Yankees play baseball in Yankee Stadium while the Newark Bears play football at MetLife Stadium. Both teams have long histories and loyal fan bases.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Jets, the New Jersey Generals and the Buffalo Bandits are three professional baseball teams located in the state. None of these teams play home games in nearby cities like Syracuse, Rochester and Albany.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Yankees play in the American League, while the New Jersey Devils play in the National Hockey League. One of the reasons for this disparity is that professional sports teams require large stadiums and a lot of money to build them.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Yankees play in the American League, while the New Jersey Devils play in the National Hockey League. While there are many fans of both teams, few people actually attend games.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Mets play in the National League, while the Yankees play in Major League Baseball. While there are no professional baseball players playing for either team, there are several prominent professionals competing on the field.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Mets, the Yankees and the Knicks are among the best known franchises in baseball. However, there are many other teams that play in minor league leagues and some of these teams compete against each other for fans.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Yankees, the New York Mets and the New Jersey Devils are three professional baseball teams that play in the city. They are owned by George Steinbrenner, owner of the Yankees.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Jets, the Giants and the Yankees are the only pro baseball teams in New York City. However, there is a professional football team: the Buffalo Bills.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Jets play in the National Football League, while the New Jersey Devils play in the American Hockey League. There are no Major League Baseball teams in New York City.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Yankees play in the American League, while the Brooklyn Dodgers play in Major League Baseball.

New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Mets play in the National League while the Brooklyn Dodgers play in Major League Baseball. However, there is one team that has consistently played well throughout the years: the Yankees.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is home to some of the largest salt marshes in the world, where fish thrive.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is one of the few places on earth where saltwater fish thrive. It is also home to many species of crustaceans, mollusks and other aquatic invertebrates.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is home to some of the planet's rarest species of fish, sea turtles and other creatures.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is one of the few places on earth where saltwater can remain pure enough to prevent algae growth. Its water is also free of bacteria, viruses and other microorganisms that would otherwise spoil the taste.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is one of the few places where saltwater can be found naturally, making it a rich source of nutrients for aquatic life. It also contains minerals that are beneficial to human health.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is one of the few places where there is no significant amount of oxygen, so it is home to a variety of sea creatures. There are several species of fish and crustaceans found nowhere else on earth.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is one of the few places on earth where there are no large bodies of salt water. As a result, there is a greater diversity of marine life in the Dead Sea region than anywhere else on Earth.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is home to many species of fish, crustaceans and other aquatic creatures. Many of these animals live in brackish water that contains dissolved salts.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is home to over 400 species of fish, including some that can grow to lengths greater than three feet. The Dead Sea also contains many types of crustaceans, mollusks and other aquatic invertebrates.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is a natural salt lake fed by underground aquifers. Saltwater evaporates from the ground and enters the water, creating a briny layer below the surface.

Despite the name, the Dead Sea's waters hardly display a paucity of marine life. The Dead Sea is home to many types of fish, including the famous blue heron. However, there are also some species that live only in the water.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The population dwindled to only a few hundred people. Some settled down to live off the land, while others moved into cities where they found employment.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The population dwindled until there were no more survivors. A few years later, the last of the remaining people moved into shelters and began to die off.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The first settlers were unable to survive long enough to harvest any crops. As the years passed, more settlers arrived and began planting crops. They did so well that they became self sufficient, though there was no longer much food available.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The British government took over the colony in 1838, and it became known as Canada. A new era of settlement began when the Canadian government allowed settlers to settle there without having to prove their ancestry.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The population of the area declined until it reached a low point of less than one thousand people in 1877. By then, the last settlement had been abandoned and the land claimed by government agencies.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The settlement of Fort St. James was established in 1879 and became the last permanent community on the island. It was here that many of the original settlers died off and where the first schoolhouse opened in 1880.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The population began to decline, and after several years of starvation, the survivors were forced to abandon their homes. It took nearly three decades before the settlement was finally abandoned.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The population dwindled to less than 100 people living in tents in the wilderness. A few survived by hunting game, gathering wild plants and fruits and making their homes near water sources.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The last known settlement was Fort St. James, located in what is now southern Ontario. Its inhabitants were slaughtered by the fur traders that came later.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The settlement was abandoned after only a few years. It seems that the settlers were too preoccupied with survival to bother with the daily tasks of farming. Their crops failed and they died, leaving behind nothing but bones and skulls.

With the paucity of food supplies, the settlers soon abandoned their claim. The last known settlement was located near what is now Fort Defiance, Minnesota. By the time the first European arrived in 1607, there were no more settlements left in North America. Most of those that remained settled along the Mississippi River.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate also failed to provide any explanation for her opposition to gay marriage, saying only that she did not support it because it would lead to legalized prostitution. She provided no specific examples of how legalizing prostitution would hurt women or children.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's response on abortion was vague and noncommittal.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's answers on other issues were vague and did not reflect any real understanding of the issue.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate also did not address any of the issues surrounding welfare, such as the failure of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program and the need to find other ways to provide assistance to those in need.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's position on gay marriage was unclear. It appears that the candidate does not support gay marriage because of religious beliefs, but also because he believes it would lead to societal change that he opposes.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's response on gay marriage was vague and equivocal. The candidate's response on gun control was also vague and equivocal.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's response on health care reform was vague and did not address any specific issues.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's response on the minimum wage was a vague statement that the federal government should set the rate at some point, though he did not elaborate further. The candidate's position on immigration reform was unclear and unspecific.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's response on abortion was vague and noncommittal.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's response on gay marriage was vague and noncommittal. It would seem that the candidate lacks any clear positions on either issue.

The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, evincing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's answers on taxes were vague and did not address any specific issue.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. The people were forced to scavenge what they could find in the surrounding countryside. Many resorted to eating the dead animals and birds that roamed the area.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. The only thing that was available were canned goods. One man, William Farrar, decided to sell canned foods out of his home. He also sold newspapers and magazines. At first, he would go door to door selling canned food.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. The people were forced to resort to scavenging in the surrounding area, where they found discarded canned goods. The cans were then broken open and eaten by rats and other vermin.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. People were forced to eat what little animals they could find. The homeless population grew rapidly because people did not have enough money to buy fresh produce. Because of the lack of food, many people became ill and died.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. The only thing that remained were the few remaining canned goods. A local farmer offered to sell you some of his surplus produce. You accepted the offer and ate your meal, which consisted of tomatoes, cucumbers and lettuce.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. The citizens were forced to rely on what little food was left over from the previous year's harvest. Because of this scarcity, many people resorted to eating animals and even other humans.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. As a result, people were forced to rely more heavily on store-bought foods. The grocery stores that did remain open were unable to meet the demand for food, so many people resorted to eating out.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. The people were hungry and thirsty. They turned to the local taverns, where they found beer, wine and hard liquor. Many tavern owners took advantage of this situation by selling alcohol to anyone willing to pay for it.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. The government rationing system was put into effect to ensure that people did not go hungry. As a result, many stores were forced to close down temporarily and others were unable to meet demand.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. Many people were forced to go hungry. The government responded by offering free meals at schools and other public buildings until supplies ran out. Some citizens took advantage of this opportunity, while others did not.

Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. The only thing that remained were canned goods. A few people managed to salvage some of the food, but many more died from starvation than from disease.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies knew that if the Germans could capture France, they would control the Channel ports and thus cut off Allied shipping. As a result, General Dwight D.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies were also concerned that the Germans might attempt to land troops along the coastlines of Britain and France in preparation for an invasion of those countries.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies had not expected to face German troops in Normandy, let alone on the beaches themselves. They did not expect the Germans to launch a counterattack.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies wanted to get the German army ashore before D Day, so they sent a number of troops across the English Channel to land near Calais. They called this landing force Operation Dynamo, after a local band name.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies lacked the manpower to launch a sustained assault against Germany, so they turned instead to air power. Allied bombers began dropping bombs over German cities beginning in August 1944. By November, the first atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies had to resort to bombing coastal towns in order to break the stalemate. By mid-June, the Allied forces had suffered heavy losses due to poor planning and execution of operations.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies had no intention of attacking France until they felt that the threat posed by the German army was eliminated. General Dwight D.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies did not know how many German troops were stationed along the coastlines because the Germans kept their forces dispersed over large areas of land.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies needed to reach the beaches quickly so that they could reinforce the beachhead and break through German defenses. However, there were no ships able to sail across the Channel because of bad weather.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies had no intention of fighting another land war in Europe, so they turned to air power to break through German defenses. They relied heavily upon bombers flying low over Germany and dropping bombs on key targets.

The allies were alarmed by the paucity of Germans soldiers defending the French coastline. The Allies did not want to risk attacking the beaches themselves because they knew that German reinforcements would arrive there. Instead, Allied commanders decided to land troops near the coast where they could then reinforce the beachheads when needed.

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. The resulting shortage led to an increase in prices. When the price of oranges went up, people bought them instead of other fruits because they were cheaper.

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. The supermarkets were unable to meet consumer demand. However, one store owner decided to go ahead and sell oranges even though he knew that there would be no more orange juice produced in the future.

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. The government-run distribution system was overwhelmed with requests for oranges and other fruits, so people began to grow their own. There were some concerns that the lack of fresh produce would lead to malnutrition among children, but this did not occur.

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. The public outcry over the lack of oranges led to a change in the law requiring that every orange purchased come from Florida. The result was that many people were able to buy more oranges than before, leading to an increase in prices.

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. As a result, many people were unable to purchase fresh fruit until the summer months when the demand for oranges and other fruits would increase. The shortage of citrus fruit led to a rise in prices, which affected consumers directly.

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. The only thing that came close to replacing the citrus fruits were oranges, which became more expensive due to scarcity. This phenomenon is known as the "Orange Crisis".

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. The resulting shortage of oranges led to a rise in prices. One family decided to make lemonade instead of paying more for orange juice.

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. The only thing left were the oranges and lemons. There was no way to tell how much of each type existed in the store, so everyone had to buy what they could find.

In the aftermath of the accident, there was a paucity of citrus fruit in the stores. The government began selling oranges at half price in supermarkets. It was also discovered that some people were allergic to the oil used in making orange juice.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She was told that the mission would take her to a remote area where there were many abandoned buildings. The only problem is that the area is also known as a hotbed of paranormal activity.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She was assigned to the 5th Company, 6th Regiment, 10th Hussars. The regiment was stationed near the city of Nuremberg in Germany where they were part of Operation Market Garden.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She was assigned to the "B" Team, which included her fellow soldiers. The mission would be to infiltrate a military facility where they were preparing to launch nuclear missiles against the Soviet Union.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She was given the code name "Sally," and her assignment was to infiltrate a small group of anarchists known as the Red Shirts.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She did so because she felt obligated to help the group. The mission was to go into the wilderness and find a tribe of people living in relative isolation from civilization.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She was assigned to the 5th Company, 1st Battalion, 6th Marines. The company was stationed aboard Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She would be deployed to the city of Klyton under the command of Captain Eckardt. The mission was classified top secret and she was told only her superior officers were authorized to know anything about it.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She was assigned to the 7th Special Forces Group, which was responsible for training special forces units within the U.S. Army.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She was assigned to the First Battalion, Second Regiment, Third Infantry Division. The division was deployed to Iraq where it served under General Petraeus.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She was told that there would be no further questions.

Due to the paucity of any other volunteers, she had no choice but to accept the mission. She would be stationed at Fort Defiance in Germany, where she would assist the U.S. Army Signal Corps in developing new ways to communicate with the enemy.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. She is said to be a former slave who escaped into the wilderness and lived off the land until she was captured by white settlers.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. The most common rumor is that she was a princess who died young, but there are other theories. One theory holds that she was a witch who fell in love with an emperor and committed suicide because of jealousy over his attentions.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. Some say she was once a slave, others claim she was a witch, still others believe she is some sort of goddess. Whatever the truth behind her origins, one thing is certain: there will be no stopping her.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. The most prevalent rumor is that she was once a slave. She claims to have escaped from slavery when she was only nine years old, but there are no records of any slaves being able to leave the country so easily.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. Some say she is a witch who was burned at the stake for witchcraft. Others claim she is a noblewoman who killed herself after being accused of witchcraft. Still others believe she is a vampire.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. She is said to be the daughter of a wealthy merchant family from one of the great trading cities in the Empire. It is rumored she was raised as a girl in a secluded house where she learned to read and write at an early age.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. She is said to be a member of the infamous Black Hooks gang, which operated in New York City during Prohibition. Some claim she escaped from prison when the law was relaxed after the repeal of prohibition.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. Some say she is a former slave that escaped and became a free woman. Others claim she is a human girl who was taken from her family when she was young and raised by humans.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. Some say she was once a princess of some forgotten kingdom. Others claim she is a sorceress. Still others believe she is a powerful witch, though few know what kind of magic powers she wields.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. The most prevalent rumor is that she is a witch. Others believe she is a demonologist, or even a wizard.

Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. Some say she was once a princess of the kingdom of Nuro, but fell in love with a man from another kingdom and married him. Others claim she is descended from royalty. Her true origins remain unknown to most people.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The war also caused the destruction of many factories and mines, which meant that there were fewer raw materials to make new products. However, in recent years the government has begun to reallocate resources back into industry.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The scarcity of materials was also due to the fact that many of the factories were destroyed. The professor said that there were no new factories built after World War II because the government did not want to create unemployment.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The war had also reduced the demand for goods, thus causing prices to rise. The professor stated that in order to maintain a stable economy, the government would need to increase taxes and regulations so that people were willing to spend money on more things.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The professor also said that the scarcity of food was due to the war as well. When asked why there were no weapons factories, he replied that he did not know.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The material shortage resulted in the development of new techniques that were used to produce more efficient products.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The professor also noted that the war would continue indefinitely, so the scarcity of resources was not necessarily a problem. However, he said that there were other factors contributing to the shortage of materials.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The professor noted that there were still some resources left over and that the government would soon begin to distribute them to citizens.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The lack of materials resulted in the destruction of many factories and mines. With no more resources, the economy collapsed. The professor said that this economic collapse was directly responsible for the creation of gangs like the Red Devils and other criminal organizations.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The professors were able to secure some of the rarest metals and minerals, but they were unable to obtain any new raw materials. They did acquire a few items that could be used in making bombs, however.

The professor explained that the paucity of materials was a direct result of the war, with supplies being diverted to the war effort. The resources were used to produce weapons and ammunition, which resulted in shortages of other items. A shortage of food led to malnutrition, leading to higher infant mortality rates. As a result, the population began dying off due to starvation and disease.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The American government responded by importing more exotic materials from abroad, including platinum, palladium and rhodium. These were used primarily for spacecraft components such as engines and power sources.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The government responded by placing restrictions on the importation of new materials. The result was that many metals were unavailable, including platinum, palladium and rhodium. It became necessary to find substitutes for these precious metals in spacecraft components.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The U.S. government was forced to turn to the private sector for metal supplies.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The United States government began a program to acquire rare earth materials from other countries. While the effort was successful in obtaining some important elements, the supply chain was severely disrupted and many companies went bankrupt.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The U.S. government began developing new materials to replace those lost in the disaster, including aluminum oxide (Al2O3), titanium dioxide (TiO2) and boron nitride (BN2).

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The lack of metals meant that spacecraft were unable to withstand the harsh environment and would break down before reaching their destinations.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The U.S. government began to explore the possibility of mining asteroids, and NASA launched several missions to collect samples of asteroids for return to Earth.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The metal shortages were so severe that the Soviet Union became increasingly dependent upon China for precious metals. The Soviets began to sell Chinese scrap metal to other countries, including the U.S., and American companies began buying up scrap materials from Russia.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The government responded by purchasing silver from Canada and selling it to the public at a discount. As a result, the price of silver rose dramatically.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The only metal found useful for spacecraft parts were those used in aircraft engines. While some materials were readily available, others were extremely rare and expensive. For example, platinum was so precious that only a few rich people could afford it.

The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak. The US government attempted to remedy this situation by establishing the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), a division of NASA that would provide information on materials used in space missions.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The Senator's supporters were more than willing to support him because of his reputation as a man of integrity and good character. They also knew that the Senator would be able to deliver on his promises to improve their quality of life.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The senator's success in garnering support from many voters was due to his ability to appeal to their emotions, particularly fear. Fear of communism, fear of the unknown and fear of losing what little freedom they still enjoyed.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The voters were attracted to him because of his ability to get things done.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The senator would often speak passionately on issues of importance to him and his supporters. He was able to convince many people that he was speaking on behalf of the common man when in reality he was doing so for himself.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The candidate was able to convince voters that he would be more effective in governing than any other Republican running for the position. In addition, he won over many women voters because of his promise to restore traditional family values.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The senator's ability to win over voters through charm was demonstrated when he convinced the people of Illinois to vote against their economic interests by proposing a tax increase.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The young woman was impressed by his charm and her own lack of it. She became a loyal supporter of the senator and campaigned tirelessly for him throughout the election period.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The young woman who would become his wife, Virginia Rappe, was impressed by his charm and offered her hand in marriage. They were married on August 20th, 1872 in the Rotunda of the Capitol Building.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The voters were drawn to him because of his ability to make them feel good about themselves and his willingness to help those less fortunate.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The public was captivated by his charm and the politician's ability to connect with voters. As a result, he won re-election easily.

The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The money raised by his speeches attracted attention, and people came to see him. He became known as the man who would save the day.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The room was so small that only a few people were able to fit into it. A man in a suit stood up and announced that the meeting would begin shortly after 10:00 AM.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. A new member of the group arrived: a young woman dressed in black and wearing headphones. She stood near the back of the room, watching everyone intently.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The last person to arrive was a man wearing a tuxedo and carrying a briefcase. When asked why he had come, he replied that he wanted to see what kind of reception would be given to his presentation.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The meeting continued after the cancellation of the previous session.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The next day, the meeting began. At the end of the month, the meeting ended.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The next day, the group met again at the hotel where they were joined by several other groups from around the country.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The group eventually met again in the conference room of the hotel where the seminar was being held. After the group reconvened, a man entered the conference room and announced that he would like to speak first.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The next day, the group met again. This time there were more people in attendance. When the meeting began, everyone seemed excited to discuss the future of their community.

The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The next day, the group met again. At this point, there were only three people left: Ludwig Wittgenstein, John Cage and Charles Baudelaire. All four men had long since died by then.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The wind whipped the leaves and snowflakes fell hard on their bodies. They were unable to escape the cold.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The animals were forced to seek cover under the foliage of the trees or beneath rocks. They would not have survived another winter without this protection. It is possible that the squirrel population will increase because of the loss of forest habitat.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The squirrels were small and scurrying around in the undergrowth, and the few trees offering shade were sparsely planted. A group of men approached the tree closest to where they stood.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The squirrels were able to survive because there was no one around to eat them. Humans can also become more self-sufficient when faced with lack of food, water or shelter.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The birds were too numerous to count. It was cold enough to freeze your bones, but not so cold that you couldn't hear the howls of the wolves and owls overhead.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The animals were drawn to the open spaces where there was less cover and more opportunity for food. As the population grew, so did the number of people seeking refuge in tree shelters.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The animals were so numerous that they overwhelmed the trees, which provided little protection against the cold wind blowing off Lake Michigan. It rained heavily throughout January and February, creating a deluge of mud and water.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The squirrels were too numerous and hungry. They would soon overrun the trees, devouring everything in their path.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The squirrels were hungry and the trees provided no food source. The birds would eat the fallen leaves, but only after the squirrels had eaten them first.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The animals were forced to seek cover under the branches of the trees, where they remained until nightfall when they began to return to their homes.

The trees offered a paucity of shelter for the hordes of squirrels. The animals were attracted to the smell of food and began gathering around the trees, where they would remain until nightfall when they returned to their homes.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The lack of opportunities for older actors to perform in films can lead to frustration and even depression among those actors over the age of 40.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The lack of roles for older actresses is one reason why so many young women are entering the business today. The other reason is that there are fewer opportunities for actors over the age of 40.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The number of films being produced today is smaller than ever before. Films are more expensive to make and studios are having difficulty recouping their investment. This trend will continue unless there is some sort of change in the way movies are made.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The solution? Make more films starring younger actors! The problem is, there isn't enough money to make those movies.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The problem is exacerbated when stars are replaced by younger actors in films. When this happens, the older actress' career suffers because she cannot find work and her image is tarnished.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The lack of opportunities for women over forty years old is a major cause of the decline in the number of female moviegoers.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The solution? Film a video message for your fans. A video message is sent to your fans via the Internet, television or other means. You can even send one to your fans when you're away from home!

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The decline in popularity of films like Gone With the Wind and Casablanca during the 1950s and 1960s were attributed to a lack of young people wanting to play those roles.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The lack of roles is a result of the increasing number of films being shot digitally, allowing actors to move around more freely. As a result, older actresses find themselves unable to capture the performances required for roles requiring physical presence.

The paucity of film roles for aging actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The solution is to make more films starring younger actors. While there are many reasons why older actresses might lack opportunities, one factor is the difficulty of portraying young characters.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The tug-of-war team was replaced by a group of students from the University of Chicago. They were sponsored by the International Olympic Committee and the American Association of University Women (AAUW).

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The event was revived in 2011, but only for those participants who were able to raise $25,000 dollars.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The tug-of-war was replaced by the "Tug of War Championship," a contest where teams of four compete to see who can pull a weighted line across the water faster.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The tug-of-war event itself is held annually in August, when the participants compete to pull a heavy rope attached to a large wooden pole across a river.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The tug-of-war itself is not dangerous; however, it does require great strength and endurance. It was only in recent years that more people began competing in the event, leading to greater injuries and even deaths.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The event had been held annually since 1884. It was organized by the International Yacht Club of New York City and sponsored by the yacht club. Competitors were required to wear white uniforms and white caps with black bow ties.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The International Association of Yachting Instructors (IAYI), the governing body for sailing instruction in the U.S., decided to suspend the event until there were no longer safety concerns.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The International Yacht Club of New York decided to hold a new contest instead. It was called the World Race and involved yachts racing around a course.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The International Maritime Organization (IMO), a UN agency, decided that the competition should be held aboard a ship instead. However, the IMO does not regulate sailing competitions; each country decides how to run its own contests.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The International Maritime Organization (IMO), the international body responsible for regulating maritime activities, decided that the competition should no longer take place because of possible risks to competitors and spectators. IMO also stated that the decision would be reviewed annually.

The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The event was revived in the 1980s when the International Olympic Committee allowed teams from other countries to compete against American and Canadian crews.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The population was maintained at a steady level of approximately 200 people. As food became more scarce, the citizens resorted to cannibalism. It was only after several years of starvation did the population begin to increase again.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The population remained stable throughout the winter months, but then began to grow again when spring arrived. A few farmers were able to get their crops into the ground before the weather turned bad, but many did not make it.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The survivors were allowed to leave the island, but were told they would never return. Those that refused to go back home were killed by the military.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The people were given food rations of a few ounces per day and medical care was provided for those suffering from malnutrition. With the onset of winter, however, the situation worsened.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The population remained stable, and the survivors were able to continue their work in the fields. However, without food supplies, people began to suffer from malnutrition. They became more susceptible to disease and other ailments.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The peasants were given food rations, but no longer provided with meat. They were allowed to eat some potatoes and cabbage, but not much else. With the arrival of spring, the famine was lifted.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The population remained stable, but the number of mouths to feed did increase. As a result, some people were forced into self-imposed labor camps where they worked until they died.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The population was reduced by one third. After the famine ended, there were no more survivors. The population continued to decrease until only one person remained: you.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The survivors were given a choice: live off the land or go into exile. Those that chose to remain on the island would continue to eat wild plants and animals, but those that opted for exile would no longer be able to grow food themselves.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The first crop was harvested in June of 2012 and the second crop in July of 2013. By September of 2014, the population had grown to over 100 people.

With the successful harvest, starvation was kept in abeyance. The survivors were given enough food to last until spring when they would move on again. They moved on, but only after having learned how to survive in harsh conditions.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She had learned from her experience and would never repeat it again. The event had changed her, but she knew that the events of the day were not over yet. There was still much to learn about herself and how to live.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She couldn't quite put her finger on what it was exactly, but she knew that she wanted to keep quiet about it until the day when the time came where she could talk about it openly.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She did not know what to make of the situation, but she knew there was something more going on. Her father had died, and she wondered if it was time for her to take over the family business.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She knew she needed to go back home. The only way to get there was by train, so she boarded one and took a seat near the window.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She would never forget what happened and she would always think about it. The event had caused her to change dramatically, but she knew there was more to come.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She wanted to make sure that something similar did not happen again. The next day, she went into the basement and began to write a letter to her family explaining what happened.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She did not know what else to do. The next day, the police department announced that there would be no further investigation into the matter and that it was over.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She was also aware that the news of the day was more important than any one headline. The story was just beginning to unfold and she didn't know what would happen next.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She had no idea what would happen next, but she did know that there was something bigger going on. Something that would affect people beyond the borders of the city limits. The only thing she knew for sure was that her life had changed forever.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She wanted to know what would happen next. The news reports said there had been no arrests and that the investigation into the incident was ongoing.

The newspaper headlines had moved on from her, but she felt like the incident and its repercussions were part of a larger whole still sitting in abeyance. She did not know what else to think.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group's last album, "A New World," was released in 2001. Their popularity has declined since then and their members are no longer active in the music industry.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members disagree on how best to proceed: some want to continue touring while others prefer to focus more time on writing new material. Some band members believe that if they can't write a good album within three years, then they should disband.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members disagree on how best to proceed: some want to continue touring while others prefer to focus more time on writing new material. Some band members believe that if they can't write a good album within three years, then they should disband.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members continue to live together in a house where they rehearse regularly. They are currently trying to decide whether or not to perform one last show before disbanding.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group members are divided into three factions: the leaders, the followers and the dissidents.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group has not released any new material since the last album. Their popularity has declined due to internal strife and a lack of musical direction.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group's members disagree on what should happen next. They can either continue to play shows together, or form a new band.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group is still a bit divided on how to proceed, but there are those that want to continue playing live shows and others that would like to focus more on recording albums.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members still disagree on how to proceed, but the group is too large to function without each other. They can't even agree on what they should play next time they meet.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members are divided into three factions: the "Old Guard," led by guitarist Bob Ezrin; the "New Guard," led by bassist Mike Stern; and the "Young Guns," lead by drummer Chris Shiflett.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members have come to believe that they can only succeed together.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group is currently led by guitarist/vocalist Jim James (born 1943).

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group has also disbanded and is no longer performing live.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members are divided into factions: one faction believes that the best way to maintain the group's popularity is to continue playing shows as usual, while another faction would like to play more experimental music.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group's last album, The Parachutes, sold poorly despite being produced by one of the best-known recording studios in the country. It seems that the band members no longer feel a need to compete with each other.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group has always been a bit fractured since the death of founding member John Fahey in 1991. The current members include keyboardist Jon Theodore, guitarist/vocalist Jeff Mangum, bass player Mike McCready and drummer Frank Ferrer.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members are divided into three factions: the original members, the newcomers and the former members. Each faction has different ideas about how to run things, and none of them want to share power.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group has no plans to tour again. Their last show was in 1988 when they played at the Fillmore East in New York City.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group has yet to find a suitable successor. They continue to tour, but their popularity is waning and the members are starting to feel the pressure of being responsible for future musical direction.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group has never released another album since their first one came out in 1983. There is no clear leader within the band and many believe that there isn't even a singer anymore.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group is currently led by guitarist Mike Portnoy, who has taken a more active role in the band since the departure of bassist Dweezil Zappa.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group's members disagree on how best to proceed: some want to continue playing live shows, others would like to take the band into the studio and record a follow-up album.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members disagree on how best to proceed. Some want to continue as before, while others would like to get back together and play live shows again.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group's members are divided into factions and each faction has its own agenda. Each faction wants to lead the band to greater success, but there is no leader among them.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members have different ideas about how to proceed. Some want to continue performing live shows, while others believe that it would be better to concentrate on recording new material and touring more extensively.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The group members are divided into factions, each with their own agendas. There is no agreement on how to proceed: some want to go back to touring while others prefer to focus more on releasing new material.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members disagree on how best to proceed, and each one wants to pursue a different direction. One member, John Densmore (born 1942), is more interested in developing the group into a full blown rock 'n roll act.

The band finally stopped their infighting long enough to release a new CD, but regardless it will remain in abeyance until someone takes over leadership. The band members have grown weary of each other's antics and the constant fighting. They believe that the only way to keep the group together is to stop playing music altogether.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team had won three straight championships and the fans wanted more. They wanted to win another championship before the season ended.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team began training camp with a new look and attitude.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team did not make any major changes to its roster, though some players decided to retire due to various reasons.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team decided to make some changes. The players voted on a new logo, colors and uniforms, which were approved unanimously. They also decided to hold off on any major acquisitions until after the season ended.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team did not make any major changes to its roster, though the addition of another veteran defenseman would help. The coaching staff also decided that while the team still needed more speed, it didn't need much defensemen.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team had no new contracts signed and there was little hope of any significant free agent acquisitions. There was one potential option left open: trading away star quarterback Brett Favre.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team had some new players, but there was no time to get into any sort of training camp. Instead, the team concentrated on improving its roster in the short term.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team was hoping to add a veteran forward who would help stabilize the offense, but that plan fell through when the team failed to reach an agreement with free agent center Brad Richards.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team decided to play its remaining games at home, and the players took advantage of the new amenities provided by the stadium. They purchased an iPad for each player and began using it to take advantage of the stadium's Wi-Fi service.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team decided to hold onto several players, including All-Star center Ozzie Smith, who had just turned 35 years old.

The team made the playoffs, so all thought of its long-term plans were in abeyance during the crucial off-season. The team would need to improve its depth and get younger players into the lineup.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The government will respond quickly and decisively to prevent further attacks. If the terrorists are successful in carrying out an attack, then the country will descend into chaos.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The war will continue until the terrorists are eliminated. Peaceful coexistence is no longer possible under any circumstances.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The fear of terrorism is already enough to cause people to avoid large gatherings. If terrorists claim responsibility, then the negotiations will be postponed indefinitely.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The US government will be forced to respond quickly, since the possibility exists that terrorists might claim responsibility for such an act. President Bush will likely seek to blame Al Qaeda or some other terrorist organization.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The government will continue to maintain control over the situation, and any terrorists found to be responsible will face severe punishment. Peace negotiations can also take place without the need for a formal announcement.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The bombings will cause panic among citizens, and the government will be forced to respond quickly. Terrorists may claim credit for the attacks, but the blame can easily fall on other groups.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The government will attempt to minimize the damage caused by denying any involvement. However, the public outcry would force a reevaluation of what happened. The truth will eventually come out, but it might take years before it does so.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The possibility of nuclear war has become more likely due to the increasing number of countries possessing nuclear weapons. There is no way to know how many terrorists might take advantage of a crisis involving a country having nukes, so negotiations would be impossible.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The President will immediately call off the talks and declare martial law. The military will be given wide latitude to search homes, businesses and other locations without warrants.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The government will likely call for more security measures, including the re-introduction of the draft. A major reason for this is fear that the terrorists may claim credit for the attack.

If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The terrorists will claim responsibility for the attacks in order to gain international sympathy and support. If there is no evidence linking the terrorist group to the bombings, the peace talks can continue.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The new leader of the Conservative Party, Stephen Harper (born 1959), is a former journalist and political commentator.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The new Prime Minister will be chosen by a vote among the members of Parliament.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The new prime minister will be announced soon.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The election of a new prime minister will likely occur before the end of the year.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The new King has stated that he will name a successor when he feels ready.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The next in line is Prince Charles Edward Stuart, Duke of Cornwall. A member of the House of Windsor since birth, he inherited the title when his father died without issue.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The new Prime Minister will be announced on March 15th.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The country is currently under the rule of King George VI, who has been in power since 1952. He is known for being a monarchist and has no plans to step down.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The country is still recovering from the economic crisis that hit Europe shortly after the end of World War II. While many believe that the nation will recover quickly, others question whether the monarchy can continue to exist in its current form.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The next in line is Prince Andrew, Duke of York. He has been groomed since childhood for the role of monarch. At twenty-five years old he is only three years younger than Queen Elizabeth II when she became queen.

The heir to the throne was widely expected to take the position of Prime Minister, but his recent marriage and other factors have thrown his claim into abeyance. The next in line is Prince Charles Edward Stuart, Duke of Cornwall. Although he has no formal education beyond a bachelor's degree in politics from Oxford University, Charles Edward Stuart is considered to be one of the leading members of the British royal family.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The couple were still together, but they did not speak of the matter publicly. They were content to live their lives without any further discussion of the issue.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The king would occasionally visit the castle, but he did not stay long. The duchess kept her distance from him, and she never visited the castle herself. She only came when there were important guests visiting.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The couple continued to live together, though it became increasingly difficult for her to maintain the lifestyle she enjoyed in the castle.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The king did not want to upset the queen, and thus he kept quiet about it. It would be years before the details were known, and even then only to those closest to him.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The Duke did not want to make any public statements about his feelings towards her, though he would occasionally express them privately. He was concerned that if she were to become aware of the relationship, she might try to break off the engagement.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The couple would continue to live together, but there were no more public displays of affection. It was understood that the relationship would remain private.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The king had no intention of marrying again until his son succeeded him. When the time came, he would marry a woman of equal status to himself. But as long as the king lived, there were rumors that the queen was pregnant.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The king was concerned that if the queen were to discover the affair, she would either kill him or force him into exile. He feared that if he did not marry her, then she might attempt to take power herself.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The Duke would occasionally ask her advice on matters relating to his business affairs, but she always declined. She also refused to speak ill of him publicly, even when he was accused of adultery by another woman.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The Duke's wife, the Duchess Maria Theresa von Hohenlohe-Langenburg (1862–1930), was a member of the House of Habsburg.

The duke had decided to keep the arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The duke would occasionally make comments about how much he enjoyed the company of women, but no one knew what to expect when he came into contact with a woman.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The janitor was never caught again.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The janitor was a former member of the GZS security force, so he was immediately suspected of being involved in the theft.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The janitor was caught red handed and charged with stealing several works of art from the museum. However, after being questioned, he admitted to having committed the thefts in order to support his drug habit.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The janitor was able to escape detection because he was dressed as a clown. He claimed that he had been hired by the carnival owner to perform there and that the owner wanted him to dress like one so people would think he worked there.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The investigation revealed that the janitor had stolen a painting from the National Gallery of Art. It appears that the janitor was either incompetent or possessed by some sort of dark spirit.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The janitor was charged with stealing a painting from the National Gallery in London. A museum official said that he was responsible for several other thefts since he had shown no remorse and claimed that he would continue to steal until caught.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The janitor claimed that he had no idea what he did. He said he didn't even know how to operate the safe where the paintings were kept.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The janitor was charged with stealing paintings from the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C., but after a thorough investigation, the authorities determined that he did not commit any crime.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The investigation revealed that the janitor had stolen a painting from the National Gallery of Art. After some deliberation, they decided to release him back into the community after he completed a program of counseling and rehabilitation.

The museum officials placed the janitor into abeyance while they investigated his latest art heist. The investigation revealed that the janitor had stolen a painting from the museum. The paintings were valued at $100,000 each and there was no evidence of forced entry into the building.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The agency decided to postpone action until after the next meeting. When the time came for the next meeting, the agency finally acted.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The agency delayed action because it wanted to ensure that the new technology would meet all of its requirements before proceeding with implementation. When the new technology was ready, the agency decided to proceed with implementation without waiting for additional testing.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The idea behind delaying action until later dates was to see how the public would react to the proposed project. If people were opposed, then there would be no point in pursuing the project.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The postponement was due to the need to gather more information. When the time came for final approval, the agency decided to proceed with the project.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The agency was concerned that delaying the decision would cause unnecessary delays in completing other projects. The delay did not affect the project itself, but it delayed the release of the report.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The delay was necessary because the agency wanted to ensure that the project would meet all requirements before proceeding with it. A project delayed too long can become obsolete.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The agency waited until the last minute to make a final decision, so that it would be ready when the time came. This delayed action caused delays in other projects and ultimately resulted in the project being canceled.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The delay was necessary because the agency did not want to waste time and money on an unnecessary project.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The agency decided to postpone action until after the holidays so that employees would have time off and could spend time with family. When the holiday season came around, the agency finally acted upon the proposal and began construction of a new building.

When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The agency eventually decided that the proposal would be too expensive to implement and sent it back to the applicant for revision. When the applicant submitted revisions, the agency determined that they were not sufficient and sent them back to him for further review.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The new captain was Captain John Williams, a former member of the debate team. After the election, Williams became leader of the debate team.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The new captain was Captain Aiden, a young man who had just graduated from college.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The new captain was chosen by a vote among the members. The election process involved each member voting for one candidate, then ranking candidates according to preference.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The new captain was Captain William J. "Bill" Shatner (born 1953), who had served as a member of the debating team since its inception in 1971.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The current captain was a woman named Lisa, and she served as captain for five years. She was also the first female captain in the history of the debate team.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The voting took place over several weeks, and after a series of ballots, the new captain was chosen: George Saffire. A former member of the debate team himself, Saffire had served as president since its inception in 1892.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The new captain was a woman named Patricia Pemberton, a member of the debating team since its inception. She served as captain for four years before resigning due to her dissatisfaction with the direction debate teams were being led in.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The captain was then required to remain in power until the end of the season. When the team returned from their trip, the captain announced that he would be stepping down and that a new captain would be elected at a later date.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The new captain was Captain John Dolan, a veteran of the debate team. He had served as a member of the debate team since its inception and was well respected within the organization. After some discussion, he chose to remain on as captain.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The new captain was James Nachtigal, a member of the debate team since its inception. A graduate of the University of Chicago Law School, Nachtigal had served as a law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart.

After the assembly, the debating team's leadership position was kept in abeyance until a replacement captain could be elected at the next meeting. The debate continued after the new captain took over. After some discussion, the leaders decided that since there were no other candidates, they would elect one of themselves to lead the team.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. The couple was expecting a large windfall, but when they did win the lottery, it came too late to make any changes in their plans. They decided to go back home and spend time together before resuming their vacations.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. They spent their time relaxing, watching television and playing video games. The children did not seem to care what happened in the world, so long as they were together.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. The children's parents decided to take advantage of the situation by purchasing a new car and having it shipped right to their house. They also purchased a boat for the kids so they could go boating in Lake Michigan when summer vacation arrived.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. The couple decided to take advantage of the situation by buying a house together. They chose a modest home in a quiet neighborhood in the country where they could raise their children without fear of being disturbed.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. They did win the lottery, but only after several months of agonizingly long negotiations. The couple decided to spend their newfound wealth on a yacht instead of spending it on a new home.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. The family members who had purchased tickets for the winning numbers were ecstatic when they learned that their ticket matched the winning number.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. The family gathered together at the beach house where they spent time relaxing and watching television. They did not watch sports because they knew that there would be no more games played on Sunday.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. They decided to go on a cruise ship instead. The family spent the entire time playing cards, drinking beer and generally having fun.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. They decided to go on a cruise ship instead. The couple was so excited when they found out that they purchased tickets for the Carnival Triumph, that they didn't bother checking the schedule before boarding.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. The couple decided to go on a cruise ship instead. They purchased tickets online and paid for the trip by credit card. Upon boarding the ship, they found themselves in a room full of people who looked like they came straight off a movie set.

The family's vacation plans were in abeyance while they waited to see if they won the lottery. The family decided to go to Disney World instead. While there, they experienced the thrill of winning the lottery and spent thousands of dollars on rides and food.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The court also ruled that there would be no more press conferences by either side. A few reporters were allowed to remain outside the courtroom to cover the proceedings, but only under supervision of the bailiff.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The judge also stated that the defendant would remain free on bail pending sentencing.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The defendant's attorney requested that the court declare a mistrial because the jury foreman had committed suicide after deliberating for only four hours. The judge denied this request.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The reason given was that the defendant's counsel failed to appear in court for the first day of trial. It appeared that the lawyer did not wish to continue representing his client. A new attorney was appointed and continued to represent his client.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The reason given was that the defendant was currently being held under protective custody in a mental hospital. There were concerns over possible threats against witnesses and potential violence toward police officers.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The defendant was released after paying $300 bail. The court adjourned until Wednesday morning when the jury will be selected.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The court heard arguments on whether the defendant should receive bail or remain in custody pending sentencing. A few of the more radical members of the public were also allowed to speak to the press after being granted permission by the judge.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The court will reconvene on January 9th, 2010.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The court will reconvene in two weeks to determine whether the defendant should remain behind bars.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The court will reconvene on Monday, September 27th at 9:00 AM.

The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The court will reconvene on Monday, April 22nd at 9:00 am.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The recent death of his wife Sandra has brought new attention to the ongoing legal issues surrounding the former congressman. However, there is no indication that any of these people will step forward to take over his responsibilities.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. However, the recent revelations of his financial dealings have caused him to lose some of his financial support. The scandal has also brought into question whether he will run again in 2004.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The trial is set for February 28th, 2013.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The only person who has stepped forward publicly to offer him financial support is his former mistress, Gail Sheehy.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The public will likely never know what really happened between him and the young woman he allegedly killed. As long as his wealth allows, no one can question whether or not he committed any crime.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. However, his trial is scheduled to begin in June of 2013. The timing of the trial will determine whether he will remain in prison until death or go free on bail. If convicted, he faces a sentence of up to twenty years imprisonment.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The public is still waiting to see whether the scandal will ever become a full blown political crisis.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The scandalous allegations against him were so damaging that even the American Bar Association refused to take any action on them. For now, however, the former congressman will continue to live a life of luxury while awaiting trial.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. However, the current political climate will certainly make it more difficult for him to continue operating. The Republican Party has recently moved to curtail civil liberties and eliminate government regulations.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The recent release of his memoirs, however, has brought these troubles into public view. In the book, Martin Luther King Jr.'s widow Coretta Scott King makes several accusations against him.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The current status quo of a non-partisan judicial system ensures that the public will remain unaware of any wrongdoing. A recent poll indicates that nearly half of Americans believe the President committed impeachable offenses.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The most recent news is that he has lost his law license because of his involvement in a bribery scheme involving a former colleague. He has also been accused of having an affair with a young woman who worked for him.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The question remains whether the public will accept him back into politics or not. If he does return to political life, there is no guarantee that he would be able to overcome his past.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. But if the allegations against him are true, then he will no longer be able to rely upon those people. If he is found guilty, he may find himself unable to obtain funds for defense or even gain employment again.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. But if he loses the upcoming election, then those friends will no longer shield him from prosecution. If convicted, he faces a sentence of five years imprisonment and a fine of $250,000.00 dollars.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The public has no idea how much money the former congressman makes, nor does anyone know what he spends it on. Most people assume that he uses some of the funds to support his family.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. But as his troubles continue to mount, they will no longer remain confined to the confines of Washington D.C..

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. However, his legal troubles will likely continue to increase and he will no doubt face more lawsuits.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. But the day will come when he can no longer hide behind a system that protects him. The time is coming soon, when his actions will become more difficult to justify.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. A new scandal might be brewing among them, however.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The scandal surrounding his sexual indiscretions has not yet reached the public consciousness. However, there is no doubt that he will face serious repercussions for his actions when they become known.

As of yet, the ex-congressman's legal and ethical woes have been kept in abeyance by his wealthy friends. The former congressman has no real political ambitions, though some speculate that he will run for public office again in the future. For now, however, he is content to remain in private life.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit was opened again after several months when the vandals were caught red handed. They admitted to having no idea what they were doing and apologized profusely for their actions.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit will remain closed until further notice.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit will remain closed until further notice.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit was temporarily closed to the public until the damage was repaired.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit is currently closed until further notice.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit will remain closed until further notice.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit will remain closed until further notice.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit was removed and moved to another location due to concerns that the display might become damaged in transit.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The museum will reopen in three months when the exhibit has been fully restored.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit is currently being repaired and will reopen when the damage is complete.

The museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit was temporarily removed to allow for repairs. It will return once the damage has been repaired.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The singer has recently suffered a severe injury that will require surgery. As a result of this setback, the artist is unable to perform his upcoming concert tour.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The artist will need time to write another album and promote it. While this may seem like a reasonable thing to do, there is no guarantee that the next release will sell well enough to justify the expense of promotion.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The band is waiting for new material from the singer. A few weeks ago, the singer revealed that he had recently broken up with his girlfriend of three years.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The album is due to come out soon, but the band members are currently struggling with various musical problems. One member is suffering from a severe case of writer's block. Another member is having difficulty writing lyrics because of his recent divorce.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The album is due to come out soon, but the artist will not be able to complete his new material until he can get back into shape.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The artist is trying to decide whether to continue working on his new album or abandon it altogether. His decision will affect the financial success of his next project.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The artist wants to get back into the studio and finish his next album, but he cannot seem to find the motivation.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The artist is trying to decide whether to continue working on his new album. If he does, he will need to complete the project before the end of the year.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The artist is working on a new album while simultaneously dealing with financial difficulties. While the artist may be able to make more money from touring, recording and merchandise sales, he needs to take care of his family first.

Infidelity, drug use and mental illness are only some of the issues in the musician's life; right now his latest release is in abeyance. The artist has been battling depression and anxiety, and while he feels better now, he knows that his next album will take longer to complete. His label is demanding that he put out another album within a year or face cancellation of the contract.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. As a result of his conviction, he lost his position as Minister of Finance and was replaced by former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. The new government quickly passed legislation that reduced taxes and raised spending, thus increasing the national debt.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. The scandal resulted in the resignation of President Richard Nixon. While his political career was temporarily derailed, John F. Kennedy became president after Nixon resigned.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. The scandal resulted in the resignation of President Nixon. While serving as Vice President under Ford, Jimmy Carter won the presidential election in 1976. He became president when Gerald Ford resigned due to health concerns.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. He resigned from his position as mayor of New York City, where he served until his death in 1971. His political career began when he ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1970.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. After being acquitted of any wrongdoing, he returned to Germany where he continued to write poetry and compose music. He died in 1990 at age 68.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. The scandal involved him being accused of accepting bribes from a local developer to help secure a contract for a new airport in the Dominican Republic. He was acquitted after an investigation by the U.S.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. He resigned from the German Parliament in protest over the government's handling of the affair. After resigning, he moved to England where he became involved with another woman, Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. The scandal involved bribes paid to members of Congress in exchange for legislation favorable to the company. It was alleged that the president's son, Michael Jackson, had received a large amount of money from this deal.

His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. The affair became public knowledge when a newspaper reporter named Thomas Nast began publishing articles in the New Yorker magazine about the affair. After being caught red handed, Fitzgerald fled to France where he lived under assumed names until his death in 1919.

The proposal has been placed in abeyance while further details are hammered out with the hopes of achieving a resolution soon. The Board will continue to monitor the situation closely and make any necessary adjustments when warranted. We would like to thank you for your patience during this time.

The proposal has been placed in abeyance while further details are hammered out with the hopes of achieving a resolution soon. The proposal will be put back into consideration when the time is right.

The proposal has been placed in abeyance while further details are hammered out with the hopes of achieving a resolution soon. The proposal will be put back into consideration when the time is right.

The proposal has been placed in abeyance while further details are hammered out with the hopes of achieving a resolution soon. The proposal will be put back into consideration when the time is right.

The proposal has been placed in abeyance while further details are hammered out with the hopes of achieving a resolution soon. The project will continue under the new name "Safari," and will include a variety of improvements to enhance your experience. Please stay tuned for more information!

The proposal has been placed in abeyance while further details are hammered out with the hopes of achieving a resolution soon. If you wish to comment on the proposal, please contact me directly via email.

The proposal has been placed in abeyance while further details are hammered out with the hopes of achieving a resolution soon. The proposal will be brought back to the Board for consideration when more information can be gathered.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. The judge will then determine whether or not she should testify before the grand jury. If she does, her testimony will help define the parameters of what happened on that fateful day.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. She will testify under oath, but she will not be required to give evidence.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. The question of whether she should testify against anyone else remains open.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. The FBI has not yet released any information regarding the perpetrator(s), nor have they provided details concerning their motive. However, there is speculation that the incident may be related to a domestic dispute.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. Her identity is protected under the state secrets privilege. She is known only as Ms. XXXXXXX.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. The only other witness is the man who shot her. He claims that she was a drug addict and that he did so because he wanted to save her life.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. The FBI has stated that they will make no public statement regarding the incident until after the investigation is completed. It is unknown what role, if any, she played in the event.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. The first witness is a woman named Mary Lou Niles. She worked at the school where the shooting occurred and witnessed many of the events leading up to it. Her testimony will focus on what she saw and did while working there.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. The police have already arrested several people, including the killer himself. They believe that he killed his victims because they were being investigated by the FBI for possible involvement in a drug ring.

Being the sole survivor of the massacre, her testimony will be held in abeyance until the investigation is complete. She claims she did not see any children killed in the attack.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The defendant's defense attorney would argue that the crime did not occur because the victim was too drunk to give consent. The prosecution would counter by pointing out that there were numerous witnesses who saw the assault take place and that she gave her consent.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The jury found him guilty of the charges against him.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The judge would only say that there were too many points of view to consider and that the evidence did not support a conviction.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The prosecution did not attempt to prove that the defendant committed the crime, only that he was aware of the crime and failed to report it.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The defendant's counsel attempted to make the argument that the prosecution had failed to prove any of the charges beyond a reasonable doubt. However, there were no grounds for acquittal because the evidence was overwhelming.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The defendant did not deny the charges outright, but he maintained that his actions were motivated by a desire to provide for his family. He said he was working hard to support them while simultaneously pursuing his career as a musician.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The jury found him guilty of three counts of first degree intentional homicide.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The prosecution rested its case and the defense called no witnesses. The jury deliberated for less than three hours before returning a verdict of guilty on all counts.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The defense attorney, however, did make one last argument: the defendant was innocent because he had no intention of killing anyone. As a young man, he had worked hard to overcome his drug addiction and become sober.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The court also did not see any reason to believe that the defendant was lying. However, there were some discrepancies in the testimony given by the witnesses, particularly regarding what kind of car the victim drove when she was killed.

The judge would not gainsay the claims of the accused since the evidence was so heavily steeped in nuance. The court did not need to hear more about the details of the case since the prosecution had presented enough facts and arguments to prove that this defendant was guilty beyond reasonable doubt. However, there were still some things that needed clarification.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She would argue against her own positions, but she always maintained a positive attitude. Her speeches were filled with optimism and enthusiasm. The candidate was well liked by those around her and had many supporters.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She was more interested in winning than in advancing her own agenda. The candidate was also willing to take risks, even when those risked were risky for others.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She would argue against the policies of her opponents, but she always maintained a calm demeanor and did not lose control of herself. Her speech was clear and concise, yet her words were full of emotion.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She would argue passionately against any proposal that she felt did not reflect the values of the party. Her arguments were always well thought out and logically consistent.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She did so because she knew that her own positions were more progressive. Her opponent was a man who had no experience in public policy, but who had spent his entire career working within the government.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She was always willing to debate the merits of her own positions with anyone. Her opponents were often surprised when she would argue against their position, but she was never condescending or rude.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She was willing to take the risk of being labeled a radical. Her candidacy was supported by many people who were tired of the status quo. It seemed like she represented change and hope.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She was known to speak her mind without fear of criticism. The candidate was also known to take risks when necessary. Her opponent's campaign strategy included a focus on the economy and jobs, which she opposed.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She would never agree with her husband's plan to spend more money on defense spending, but she would argue against him when he proposed cutting back on other areas of government spending.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She would only gainay the idea that she should be afraid of losing.

The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She was a natural leader, and she used her position to advance the interests of the party. Her political skills were honed over many years of service to the party, and she was always ready to take charge when necessary.

Even as a 5-year-old, the boy was remarkably argumentative; when the school principal once offered him a lollipop if he could answer a simple multiplication question, the boy gainsaid. "I don't want any candy," he said. The boy's parents were shocked by his reaction, since they knew that their son was intelligent enough to understand the value of learning math.

Even as a 5-year-old, the boy was remarkably argumentative; when the school principal once offered him a lollipop if he could answer a simple multiplication question, the boy gainsaid. "I don't want any candy," he said. The teacher then gave the child a piece of paper with the answer written on it.

Even as a 5-year-old, the boy was remarkably argumentative; when the school principal once offered him a lollipop if he could answer a simple multiplication question, the boy gainsaid. "I don't want any candy," he said. The boy's father replied, "We're trying to raise a fine young man here!" When the boy refused again, the father told him to go home and eat his supper.

Even as a 5-year-old, the boy was remarkably argumentative; when the school principal once offered him a lollipop if he could answer a simple multiplication question, the boy gainsaid. "I don't want any candy," he said. The principal then suggested that the child sit down and try again later. When the boy refused, the principal called in a teacher to help him.

Even as a 5-year-old, the boy was remarkably argumentative; when the school principal once offered him a lollipop if he could answer a simple multiplication question, the boy gainsaid. "I don't want any candy," he said. The boy would later claim that he did not understand the question because he was too young to grasp the concept of fractions.

Even as a 5-year-old, the boy was remarkably argumentative; when the school principal once offered him a lollipop if he could answer a simple multiplication question, the boy gainsaid. "I don't want any candy," he said. The teacher, having no other option, gave the child a piece of chocolate instead.

Even as a 5-year-old, the boy was remarkably argumentative; when the school principal once offered him a lollipop if he could answer a simple multiplication question, the boy gainsaid. "I don't want any candy," he said. The principal responded that the boy would get one if he answered correctly. When the child failed to respond, the teacher called attention to himself and asked the boy again.

Even as a 5-year-old, the boy was remarkably argumentative; when the school principal once offered him a lollipop if he could answer a simple multiplication question, the boy gainsaid. "I don't want any candy," he said. The teacher gave the boy a piece of paper with the answer written on it.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I am aware that you have been working on your own project for some time, but I would like to know what it is. If you are indeed working on something new, then I can only hope that it will prove useful to me.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I believe you will find that the world would benefit greatly from a more efficient and effective system of transportation. It is also important to note that your proposal has merit.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. The only thing I can say is that there is nothing more important than your safety. We will go back to our room together and then we'll talk over what you told me.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I am aware that you are a man of science, and your research into the nature of time is well known. However, I believe that we should continue our study without interruption until we can ascertain what the future holds.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I am sure you will find the time necessary to complete your assignment. It is also true that there are other ways of expressing yourself than writing poetry, so I shall leave it up to you whether you wish to pursue this path or not.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I am aware that you are a man of many interests and hobbies, but given your position as the leader of the Guild, it would seem that you would have some interest in the subject.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I am merely trying to help you understand what is going on here.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I will need to find another way to contact you.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I am going to ask you again, however: What is your opinion?

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I am confident that he will comply with your wishes. The only thing you need to do is make sure he gets the proper training in how to handle the device properly.

Regardless of his personal feelings on the matter, he made no attempt to gainsay my request. I am not asking you to change your lifestyle. It is just that there is a difference between what you say and what you do. If you truly believe that technology will make our lives better, then why don't you act upon those beliefs?

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. The pair reach the Columbia River in California, but Clark discovers that the river is too shallow to support navigation.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. Clark's expedition is successful, but Lewis is not. The journey is long and arduous. After several weeks of traveling, the explorers encounter numerous hardships including starvation, sickness and exhaustion.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. The explorers reach the Columbia River where they find it covered with ice and snow. They make camp near Fort Clatsop, Oregon, but Clark's party is unable to cross the river due to the ice.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. The two men set off together on May 5, 1804, and never returned. Their expedition was abandoned when Lewis's supplies ran low due to bad weather and exhaustion.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. The two men continue to travel across the continent until they reach the Columbia River, where they find no trace of civilization other than Indians. They decide to camp there, despite the cold weather.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. The two men travel across the continent of North America in search of a passage to Asia. They meet several Native American tribes and eventually reach the Columbia River where they encounter a large group of Indians.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. The expedition is forced to make several changes in strategy due to the cold weather and lack of food. Lewis and Clark are unable to complete their journey, leaving behind a trail of devastation in their wake.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. The two men reach the Columbia River, but the expedition is soon cut short when a blizzard strikes. They continue their journey along the Oregon Trail, but eventually they stop to rest in what would become known as Fort Bridger.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. They reach the coast of California in February 1805 and find no trace of any Indians, but a few miles inland they encounter numerous mountain ranges.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. The two men reach the coast of California, but their journey is cut short when the ship they were traveling on capsizes.

An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. The expedition is forced to abandon its goal of crossing the continent because of inclement weather conditions. When Clark returns to St. Louis, Missouri, he describes the trip as being a failure and claims that there were no mountains or rivers in California.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. I only wish you were more articulate about your own beliefs. Perhaps you should take some classes in philosophy so that you can better express yourself.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. I just don't see how you can reconcile your own beliefs with the scientific method. You seem to believe that everything should be tested and proven before being accepted into our system of knowledge. But science isn't about proving things.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. I merely wish to point out some of the differences between yours and mine. Your understanding of language is more complete than my own. You see that there are many different kinds of words?

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. I am just wondering why you feel compelled to express yourself so passionately. If you truly believe what you say then there is no reason for concern.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. However, I think you are too preoccupied with the future. You seem to believe that technology will completely replace human labor and eliminate poverty, while at the same time creating a more harmonious society.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. I am just saying that you seem to ignore the possibility that there might be some things beyond our comprehension. You see, even though we can't comprehend everything, we can certainly understand something when we encounter it.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. I merely wish to point out that you have chosen a path that differs from mine. My philosophy is one of nonviolence, and while I am willing to discuss issues, my goal is always to achieve peace through dialogue.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. However, I think you should stop talking about what you believe in and start doing something about it. You can't change the world if you're too busy worrying about how people will react to your beliefs.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. I only ask you to consider one thing: what does it mean when someone says they have found something new? What is it that makes us different from other animals? The answer is simple: we are social creatures. We live in communities.

I would never gainsay your stated philosophies. I am just saying that you should take a step back and consider the ramifications of what you are doing. You have created a new discipline of philosophy called "Theoretical Computer Science".

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The world needs more people like him. And there is no better person to make that point than you. You have the ability to inspire others, and that is why I am here today. So come on, let's get this party started!

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The man is a master of rhetoric.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The first time I met you, you were wearing a tuxedo. You looked like a movie star. I remember thinking how much better off we would be if only people wore suits more often.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The man himself is a master of rhetoric. It would seem that there is no contradiction between his words and actions. He claims to be a philosopher, yet he uses the word philosophy in a way that suggests he does not believe what he says.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The man who was once known as the most famous professor in Germany is now recognized worldwide as one of the greatest philosophers of our time.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The question is, what does he gainay? What does he gainay? There is no need to speculate. You can only conclude that you have been misled into believing something different than what you actually know.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The man is a brilliant scientist and philosopher, and you would do well to listen to him.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The man who would become known as Albert Einstein was born in Pragerstrasse, Germany on January 18,1879.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. I am sure you understand that we live in a time when technology has advanced far beyond what any human could have imagined.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. The man is a genius. He has done more than anyone else to advance the field of human knowledge. And yet, there are those who would try to discredit him, claiming that he does not deserve his status because he is too modest.

Never one to shy away from the spotlight, he will gainsay these accusations, and do so with eloquence. I am a man of my word, and I'm proud to say that I've never cheated on you. If anything, your words have helped me keep my word.

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. You were the only one who could see into the future. And what did you say? You said that there will come a day when you won't need to talk to anyone anymore! I'm sorry, but that's just too much!

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. You were just trying to get some sleep after your long day. However, you did find it odd that you couldn't recall any of the events that occurred yesterday. It seems like everything is so new to you today!

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. The only thing that was missing was a smile.

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. But you were right in your assessment that he was too preoccupied with the past. You did not want to argue anymore, so you left him alone. After a few minutes of walking around the city, you find yourself back at your apartment.

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. The question is whether your response will be one of acceptance or rejection.

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. The man was a philosopher, after all. Perhaps he was just trying to make light of your situation by making fun of you. Or perhaps he genuinely thought that what you were doing was silly and foolish.

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. However, he did express concern over your decision to move to New York City. It was clear that you were choosing a new environment and not just moving because of financial reasons.

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. But your mother was right: there were things he didn't understand. You left him after that, though you never spoke of what happened again. Perhaps she was right...

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. But there were some things you didn't understand. Like why he never mentioned your father. You wondered what happened to him when you left home, and how he managed to survive until the day you returned.

It would, of course, have been uncharacteristic of him to gainsay you. You were merely trying to get your mind off things. However, you did feel a little uncomfortable when he said that your thoughts had been clouded by alcohol and drugs.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company also stated that the additive would save the industry billions of dollars in production costs. However, there is no scientific evidence to support this claim either.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The claim was made that the additive would provide an increase in range of fuel efficiency by 50% over current fuels. It also claims that the additive will reduce the cost of transportation by 10%.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company also stated that the additive would help increase the efficiency of automobiles, and thus reduce automobile emissions. The claim was that the additive would save money in gasoline costs, and therefore lower consumer prices.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company claims that the additive will significantly increase the range of vehicles that can operate on gasoline, and that it would also allow for more efficient transportation.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company claims that there will be no adverse effects on human health from the addition of ethanol to gasoline.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company also claims that the additive will increase the range of vehicles on the road, and thus reduce pollution.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainedayed this conclusion.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The claim was made that the additive would allow for more efficient transportation of goods across borders, and that it would also reduce pollution in the atmosphere. However, there have been some concerns raised about the safety of this technology.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company also stated that the additive would make existing cars more efficient and save consumers money. However, some scientists have questioned whether or not the additive will actually reduce emissions.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company claims that the additive will increase fuel efficiency by 10% and reduce CO2 emissions by 20%. The company also said that it would be able to produce the additive in large quantities within five years.

The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The claim is made because the company does not want to risk losing business by bringing attention to the safety issues surrounding the additive. They also believe that if there were any serious health concerns, they would have brought them to light long ago.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. As a result, he was ostracized by many of his colleagues and eventually dismissed from the University of Chicago where he taught for twenty years. He died in 1997 at age eighty-one.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. The idea that we can never know everything is one of the foundations upon which he built his philosophy.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. As a result, he became known as the father of modern linguistics. The term "linguist" itself comes from his name.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. The belief that there were no objective moral values was the basis of his philosophy.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. The question remains: what would happen if he were right? What would become of us?

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. The problem with his position was that it was based upon a faulty premise: that there were no other possible explanations for the phenomena. There were, however, other possibilities. One possibility was that the phenomenon did not exist at all.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. He maintained that there were no objective truths, only interpretations of reality. He believed that one should interpret reality according to one's own beliefs.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. He claimed that philosophy is the study of human beings, and that man cannot understand anything about nature unless he first understands himself. He believed that one should try to make sense of things as best one can without falling into dogmatic thinking.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. The notion that there were no objective truths was anathema to him. If he thought otherwise, then he would have to change his entire worldview.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. The idea that the human mind can only function within certain parameters, and that there is no inherent limit to what our minds can accomplish, remains central to his philosophy.

Despite the mountains of evidence proving him wrong, he refused to gainsay his position. The idea that one should not pursue a career in science because of the dangers inherent therein is just too much to bear. After all, why should someone's life be ruined?

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The theory of evolution has been demonstrated time and again to be true. It is a scientific principle that can be tested and confirmed.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The theory of evolution is supported by a vast body of evidence, including the fossil record, genetic studies and observations of living organisms. It also explains how species can change over time without becoming extinct.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. Darwinism is the only explanation that makes sense of all the evidence. The theory states that species evolve over time due to natural selection, which occurs when one organism's genes compete against those of another for survival.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The only one to date that has been able to provide convincing evidence is Charles Darwin. Evolutionary theory posits that species evolve over time due to natural selection, where each new variation produces a better survival rate than its predecessors.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. Darwin's theory of natural selection remains the best explanation we have for how species evolve. The theory states that organisms adapt to their environments over time, leading to changes in appearance and behavior.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The theory itself is irrefutable, yet there are those who believe that humans are too complex to understand and that the human mind cannot comprehend the complexity of natural phenomena.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The theory is so well established that no one can offer any alternative explanation. Evolutionary psychology claims that humans have evolved over time to respond to environmental pressures.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. Darwinism remains the only viable explanation for how species evolve into new forms. The theory is simple: natural selection occurs when one organism dies and another survives.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The theories of Charles Darwin have been tested and verified over time by scientists around the world. A new generation of scientists has begun to explore the possibility that human beings are not merely animals, but that we are members of a higher species.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The theory itself is unarguable, but its implications are disputed. Evolutionary psychologists argue that humans have evolved over time from lower forms of life. They claim that human beings are more similar to chimpanzees than they are to other mammals.

Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The theory is so well established that no amount of evidence can change people's minds. Some believe the theory is too complex for anyone to understand, while others feel it would be impossible to prove or disprove the theory.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She also promised to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the matter. The following day, she announced that she would not seek re-election. Her defeat came after several weeks of intense campaigning by her opponent, Republican John Connally.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She also granted the special prosecutor the authority to prosecute any violations of election law. The decision did little to quell the anger of voters who felt cheated. On November 5th, Governor Bush conceded defeat and resigned her office.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She also promised to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the matter. The next day, she announced that she would not seek re-election and that her successor would be chosen by the legislature.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She also said she did not want to hear any more complaints from other candidates. The election was held and the new governor was John Kitzhaber.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She asked that the Board of Education appoint a special committee to investigate. The board voted to support this request, and appointed three members: Dr. Edward Ruggles, a professor emeritus at the University of Wisconsin; William H.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She said she did not want to interfere with the election process, but she wanted to ensure that there were no further violations of state law. The judge ruled that the governor was indeed guilty of violating campaign finance laws and ordered him removed from office.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She appointed a special prosecutor, who indicted twenty-seven of the defendants. The trial lasted three years and resulted in the conviction of thirty-five people. Four were sentenced to death while ten received long prison sentences.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She appointed a special prosecutor to investigate the matter. The investigation revealed that campaign workers had used state resources to conduct private political business on official time, including printing flyers and distributing literature.

The governor eventually agreed to make a limited concession, but would not gainsay the allegations of misconduct by her campaign staff. She appointed a special commission to investigate the matter. The commission found that there were no grounds for disciplinary action against any of the campaign workers involved in the alleged violations. However, she was forced to resign because of her role in the scandal.

No one can gainsay the power of love. The power of love to transform the heart and fill it with joyous emotions. Love is the force that moves us forward, sustains us when we fall down and makes our dreams come true.

No one can gainsay the power of love. It is a force so powerful that it can transform the world into a paradise or destroy it entirely. The question is: what kind of love? Love of God or love of man?

No one can gainsay the power of love. The human heart is powerful, and it has been known to overcome great obstacles. However, when love becomes a substitute for reality, it can become destructive. Love is often used as a crutch to explain away the failings of others.

No one can gainsay the power of love. The human heart is a powerful thing. But the power of love can also be destructive. Love can make us forget our own needs and desires, so we become easily manipulated by others.

No one can gainsay the power of love. The ability to create new life, the joy of raising children and the satisfaction of providing for those who depend upon you are among the many reasons why people choose to live together. However, marriage also provides benefits beyond mere companionship.

No one can gainsay the power of love. It can lift a person above the confines of ordinary reality and bring him into contact with other realities. But what happens when love becomes too much?

No one can gainsay the power of love. The ability to feel and express unconditional affection toward another person has long been recognized as a powerful force that influences human behavior. Love is a powerful emotion, but it also carries risks. It can lead people into unhealthy relationships and even addiction.

No one can gainsay the power of love. Love is a powerful force that can unite people around common goals and desires. However, love does not always lead to happiness.

No one can gainsay the power of love. The love of a parent for a child, the love of a spouse for each other, the love of friends for each other, the love of lovers for one another and so on.

No one can gainsay the power of love. Love is the force that makes people give of themselves to each other, and that gives rise to what we call love. The word comes from Latin root meaning "to unite," so when someone loves another person, they join together into one being.

No one can gainsay the power of love. It can transform people into something else entirely. Love can also turn those who are once loved into something other than what they were.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. The question is whether we should continue to work together or not.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. You can't expect me to put my life into your hands when you're so weak. The only thing that will save us is if we make our escape together.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. You will take my car and drive it back to your house. I will return home after dinner. We can then discuss our future together.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. You will no longer participate in my experiments. The experiment has failed and we should stop wasting our time together. We can continue living our lives without each other, but I cannot live another day like this again.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. We will leave tomorrow morning. You can go back to your job and continue living as usual. Or you can join me in my new home where we'll live together as husband and wife.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. You will not attempt to change my mind. You can either leave me alone or continue your conversation. If you choose to continue, then we will meet again sometime soon and discuss this matter further.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. You are right to question my decision. The truth is that I am no longer sure what it means to be a man. My own view of the world has changed so much over the years that I cannot even say whether it remains true today.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. You will no longer share my room. I am going to move into your bedroom and you are going to leave the living area. We have agreed upon this arrangement before, so why should we need to re-negotiate?

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. We are going to continue our discussion later today. You can leave right now, or you can stay and listen to my presentation until then. If you decide to remain here, we will discuss your future role within the organization.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. The future will tell.

The time has come to gainsay the agreement that you and I made. We will no longer engage in business together. You are free to pursue your own interests, but I am not going to continue my relationship with you.

