Since the seventeenth century William has been known by his sobriquet “The Silent”, though, given the lengthiness of his oration during the Montgomery courthouse incident, this seems a dubious claim to fame. His real name is William Butler Yeats, but he preferred to go by the pseudonym W.B. Yeats because it made him feel more like an Irish poet than a famous writer.


Kyle's fondness of the word prompted the nickname "BK," which in turn became his sobriquet. Kyle's nickname came from the initials of his first name, which stand for Bradley John Kuhn. His middle initial is K. The two letters represent his love of the game of basketball and his affection for the University of Houston.


Given his business connections with film industry professionals, the producer may have assumed a sobriquet like "Crimson Industries" would receive favorable consideration. The producer also may have been using his position to influence the films being made by others. It could be argued that the production of such films were not necessarily meant to reflect negatively on him, but rather a reflection of his business acumen.


The man was widely known as "Big Bob," his sobriquet for his size. He was a famous comic book artist whose creations included the X-Men characters Wolverine and Cyclops. The character of Wolverine, however, is one of the few that Bob did not create himself.


His sobriquet as "the Great Conciliator" belied his ruthless consolidation of power. The term originated in the 1920s when British journalist William Makepeace Thackeray wrote that he would make "a great conciliator," and later became associated with the idea of peace.


The brothers' sobriquet as "the Terrible Twins" was well-deserved, for they were responsible for carrying out several particularly brutal crimes. They were convicted of murdering three people in New York City and sentenced to death. The twins were executed by lethal injection on January 20, 1973.


The artist signed the painting "Renoir", a sobriquet that stuck for the rest of his life. The artist was René Magritte, born in 1881. At the age of 14 he painted his first piece: a self-portrait. A year later he began exhibiting his paintings in Paris galleries.


His sobriquet of "Swifty" reflects his ability to make even the most daunting task seem effortless. The Twitter handle @swiftcode was first used in November 2007 by the then twenty-year old software developer Evan Williams. It has since grown into a global phenomenon, with more than 5 million followers.


The buttons on his jacket were incised with the pattern of a rose as embellishment. It was easy to tell that the jacket was tailored especially for him.


The design was incised onto the clay pot before it was put into the furnace, so that afterwards it could be painted to reveal a beautiful pattern.


The surgeon's knife slipped, and he incised the patient's artery. The blood gushed into the tray. It was time to remove the dead man's heart. The heart stopped beating when Dr. Rufus Turner removed it from his chest, and the patient died shortly after being placed back into bed.


The accident victim's wound had been contaminated by dirt and gravel, so the surgeon was forced to incise through the flesh to find the embedded object. The procedure was performed successfully, and the patient’s life was saved.


The physicians were able to incise the cancerous tumor to save his life. The doctors then removed the tumor and left him under general anaesthesia while they performed surgery to remove the entire mass of tissue. It would take months before he could walk again, but after several more surgeries he recovered completely.


The surgeon made an incision on the woman's chest to try to repair her shredded heart muscle. The procedure took several hours, and she remained unconscious while he worked. She will remain so until the operation is complete, and wake up once the anaesthetic wears off.


The doctor began the delicate task of incising tissue from the bottom of the wound. The patient was a young woman who had suffered a severe blow to her face when she fell off the back of her bicycle. She had sustained multiple fractures and lacerations to her face, including one eye that was completely destroyed.


The food riots that broke out in Western Mali are the result of that nation's paucity of rainfall this season. The country suffers from a lack of reliable water sources and the population relies heavily on rainwater harvesting techniques to meet their needs.


The paucity of interest among young women for traditionally male-dominated fields such as math and science is attributed to many factors. One factor is the perception that these fields are unsuitable for women simply because there are less women working insect fields. However, Universities these days are increasingly keen on encouraging young women to study these subjects.


The student's presentation was hampered by the paucity of information on the subject. The teacher explained that the student must back up their argument with more facts and evidence so that his argument is more convincing.


The paucity of public transportation in this city is disgraceful. It would seem that the only way to get around here is by car. The city council has pledged to invest more in buses over the coming years to encourage use of transportation, as well as to reduce car emissions in the city centre.


The poor sales figures for the new product was ascribed to a paucity of interest in the marketplace. It was overpriced relative to the other options available to consumers, which meant that it was uncompetitive.


Despite general support for a crackdown on extremist cults, the paucity of evidence made it difficult to bring a case against them to court. It was also recognised that public resources may be needed in other areas such as providing more affordable healthcare and housing.


New York has a paucity of professional sports teams compared to other states. The New York Yankees play in the American League, while the Brooklyn Dodgers play in Major League Baseball. While there are no professional basketball teams in New Jersey, there is a professional football team called the New York Jets.


The candidate's answer on welfare reform was limited to a few bland statements about making education a priority, showing a paucity of policy knowledge. The candidate's answers on foreign policy were vague and noncommittal. His position on abortion was unclear. Overall it was a very poor performance and it is unlikely that his campaign will progress further after this questioning.


Because of the flood, there was a paucity of food in the stores. Many people were forced to resort to scavenging food from nearby dumpsites and farms. The government responded by setting aside more land for farming and encouraging people to create their own allotments.


Despite the paucity of public information available on Esmerelda, rumors abound about her past. She is said to be a woman of great beauty and intelligence, though she also appears to be very cold.


The paucity of top-quality metals for the space program was acutely exacerbated by the outbreak of a pandemic. Disruptions to supply chains caused a delay in delivery and pushed the project timeline back by a few months.


The paucity of funds in his campaign account was made up for by the senator's charisma and charming personality. The senator was able to convince many voters that he would bring change to Washington and the nation. His ability to persuade people was one of his greatest assets. As a result, he was able to win the election.


The meeting was delayed due to the paucity of attendees. The next day, the group met again. This time there were more people attending, representing a diverse cross section of age groups and occupations.


The paucity of film roles for ageing actresses is a well-known problem in the industry. The lack of roles for older actors is one reason why many people turn to television instead. Television shows offer more opportunities for actors since a larger age range within the cast is often required.


The candidate never feared to gainsay any of her opponent's policies. She was known to be a strong advocate of social justice issues, including gay rights, women's rights and civil liberties. Throughout her campaign she openly spoke against conservative and outdated views on these matters.


An unseasoned explorer, Lewis's early boasts of reaching the Pacific are soon gainsaid by his more experienced compatriot, William Clark. It turned out that Lewis never made it that far, and simply lied about the extent of his journey.


The advisor did not dare to gainsay the king, since he had an infamously bad temper and no one in court dared to speak against him.


The company claimed that the new fuel additive was completely safe for use, and as yet no scientist has gainsaid this conclusion. The company also stated that the additive would significantly improve the performance of vehicles, despite a lack of convincing evidence.


Many have tried to gainsay the findings that underlie the theory of evolution, but all have failed. The theory is so well established that there is hardly any debate about its validity. It has become widely accepted and is unlikely to be proved wrong.


There is no gainsaying that people are concerned with the rising spate of conflicts across the country.


It would be foolish to gainsay the value of immigrants to destination countries. Many industries depend on skilled immigrant labour to function, and it would be a mistake to simply view them as an extra burden to society.


The annual tug-of-war competition was put in abeyance after many years due to safety concerns. The tug-of-war event itself is held annually in August, when the participants compete to pull a heavy rope attached to a large wooden pole across a river.


If the bombs go off and a terrorist group claims responsibility, the peace talks will be thrown into abeyance. The war will continue until the terrorists are defeated.


The duke had decided to keep the separation arrangement private, and so the state of their marriage existed in abeyance. The couple were still together, but they did not speak of the matter publicly. They were content to live their lives without any further discussion of the issue.


When they needed to delay making an important decision, the agency kept the proposal in abeyance for further study. The delay was necessary because the agency wanted to ensure that the project would meet all requirements before proceeding with it. However, prolonged delay often put projects in danger of becoming obsolete.


The judge ordered the trial to be put in abeyance until further notice. The reason given was that the defendant's counsel failed to appear in court for the first day of trial. It appeared that the lawyer did not wish to continue representing his client. They would wait until a new attorney was appointed to represent this client.


After a recent case of damage to a piece of valuable art, the museum placed the exhibit in abeyance as a preventative measure against vandalism. The exhibit is currently closed until further notice. 


His promising political career was in abeyance following his implication in a land-deal corruption scandal. The scandal involved him being accused of accepting bribes from a local developer to help secure a contract for a new airport. He was acquitted after an investigation found no evidence of him accepting this bribe.
