#savant

The only hint at a savant-like skill that showed up consistently in the testing was in the verbal section, particularly in the child's ability to list cities.
Einstein was a reputed savant in physics even as a child.
The varied abilities of humans defy imagination. One is the capability of some savants to give detailed descriptions of whatever they see in front of them, sometimes even in minute detail.
In the middle of the 19th century, the discovery of "savants," people whose disabilities were accompanied by extraordinary abilities in specific areas such as math or music, led to a flurry of activity in the field of child psychology.
The term "savant" originally refers to an extraordinarily talented person, especially one who is skilled in only a particular area, such as mathematics or music.
A savant is a person who has extra intelligence of some sort, usually in a particular area. Many have problems functioning in everyday life.
HIs special abilities as a savant make him quite extraordinary.
A savant is a person who has specialized knowledge or skill in a particular field.
Despite his obvious handicaps, Williams was a musical savant; his autism and relentless focus allowed him to develop prodigal abilities.
The most famous example of a savant, fictional or real, is the character of "Rain Man", popularised by the 1988 film of that name.


#cloture

Vote counting during a filibuster is done by a system called cloture. A Senator may end the debate when seventy (70) members have voted to end a filibuster and move on to an actual vote.
The U.S. constitution provides for the ability to override a presidential veto if two-thirds of the senators present vote to do so, a process known as cloture.
Under the new rules, to end a filibuster the senators would have to file a "cloture" motion that would force an end to debate and allow a vote.
The French president Jacques Chirac last night threatened to reject the bill, which would curb his power to have the final say on government, if a "cloture" rule was passed by the upper house.
The U.S. Senate uses a legislative process called "cloture" that allows the majority party (led by Sen.
The bill needs 60 votes to pass, but a "cloture motion" will prevent it from getting this amount, as this motion only requires 51 votes.
To avoid the possibility of ties, in 1923, the U.S. Senate adopted a rule under which it would end debate via a procedure called "cloture".
To end a filibuster, the Senate leadership can force an end to debate through a vote on closure or cloture.
The argument for the bill has not received the necessary sixty votes in favor of cloture to proceed to a final vote.
Another change in the rules that has happened since 1975 was the introduction of the "cloture" rule.

# anodyne

For the better part of the next year, he mostly worked on his book. It was an anodyne tome meant to set forth his novel birdwatching paradigm.
The new buildings, which included a library and fitness center as well as classrooms, were nevertheless dreary and anodyne to the eye.
The anodyne qualities of much of her poetry are what make it appeals to the mass-market, as opposed to a more refined audience.
The peace conference produced an anodyne document that nobody took seriously.
The student thanked the professor half-heartedly for her anodyne explanation of a complex and obscure theory.
Most television is anodyne drivel, meant to keep people's minds occupied with pleasant distractions and keep them from worrying about serious issues.
The purpose of the meeting was to allow both sides to discuss and attempt to resolve their differences, taking advantage of a peaceful and rather anodyne atmosphere of discussion.
The anodyne quality of the set-piece speech which opens the novel is a reflection of the nonchalant attitude of the ruling classes towards the desperate conditions of the working classes in Victorian England.
Today's newspaper headlines are usually anodyne and harmless – items about local sporting heroes and the opening of new shopping malls.

#edify

The philosopher's writings were intended to edify the reader on subjects related to morality, virtue and personal improvement.
The purpose of preaching was to edify the congregation and to remind people of the religious principles they were taught as children.
We're going to build a new wing at the museum to edify the public about sub-Saharan cultures.
The information that had been gathered would be released indiscriminately to inform and educate the public, with the goal of edifying them.
