# occlude
The sudden storm occluded the mountain pass, trapping the pair in a remote cabin.
The solid metal door appeared to be tightly occluded by the old dusty bookshelves that filled the space where the wall and floor met.
As she clutched at her heart, the doctor wondered if the elderly woman's arteries were partially occluded by atheroma.
The diver's body was almost occluded by the great whale's enormous tail fin.
Hidden from the tourists' view, an immense willow tree occluded the stone bridge over an unseen stream.
The invading forces left nothing to occlude the ruins of what used to be Carcosa City.
The surgeon was later found guilty of occluding much-needed blood during the operation.
The occluded light of the setting sun was blocked by the large cloud above my head.
The flood waters occluded the town's access to the outside world.
The thick clouds occluded the view of the mountain range beyond.
The upcoming lecture attempts to occlude the accusations made against the museum in recent days.
The physician is likely to warn her patient that, without immediate surgery, walking could occlude the clogged artery in his leg.
The paneled walls closed in on him, occluding his view of the outside world.
The thick smoke from the explosion occluded the exit doors and unfortunately resulted in several deaths.
Her refusal to testify could occlude justice; she must be made to speak.
The explorers would have had an easier time of it had the mountain range not occluded any attempts to reach the northern pass.
The thick curtains occlude the flashes from the cameras as Hollywood's A-list gathers for the Oscars.
The receding glacier left a landscape of occluded mountain passes behind.
When a gatekeeper shut the door, it was almost as if he sat on the opposite side of a large wall separating himself from the occluded media frenzy.
The athlete's eyes were heavily occluded by the swelling, so we all feared the worst when he was transported to the nearest hospital.
The swollen Mississippi River directly occluded the campus, making it an oasis of calm from the rest of New Orleans' urban jungle.
His injury permanently occluded the flow of blood to his brain, leading to severe cognitive dissonance and paranoia.
