# homogeneous

Even in the West, the dominant cultures aren't as homogeneous as they once were.
The region is largely homogeneous, with the dominant ethnicity making up more than 90% of the population.
These desert peoples share a hunger for conquest, and their societies are homogeneous and tightly disciplined.
They saw their role as protecting the masses from market volatility, counteracting the tendency toward economic downturns and other such disruptive influences, which might otherwise shake the population's faith in the wisdom of homogeneous government.
The problem with Europe is that it is not a homogeneous society.
The European Union was formed as a way to stop the scourge of warring nation states, but today it is often criticized for being a monolithic bloc of homogeneous governments.
If it is not used correctly, the resulting effects will be homogeneous.
We expect our employees to maintain a certain standard of dress, which is clearly homogeneous in this office.
The population of the United States is set to become more homogeneous as growth in immigration slows.
The largest US cities are becoming increasingly homogeneous; traditional immigrant gateways like New York and Los Angeles now have among the lowest foreign-born populations of any major cities.
As your train car makes a pit stop at a ghost town, you realize your new world will be one of homogeneous thinking.
The computer networks are physically isolated and consist of localized clusters of homogeneous systems.
The team hoped that the software would be homogeneous enough to speak to a broader crowd.
As a market, saying everyone is equal was far from the truth, but at least it was homogeneous.
The party wanted graduates to come from Realproletariat families, which are more likely to produce children of similar intelligence and homogeneous class consciousness.
The idea that web search is a "two-sided market" with advertisers and consumers is somewhat homogeneous since both sides are not of equal weight since advertisers have more power.
Despite the aggressive promotion of Irish culture, Ireland is a largely homogeneous society.
The country, which had been a patchwork of feuding fiefdoms just a few decades before, had been unified under one ruler and was rapidly becoming a more homogeneous society.
The only credit that the film deserves is for having what could be argued to be a reasonable, if unconscious, depiction of Norse society being historically homogeneous in contrast to the more recent wave of immigrants to Europe.
The company is expanding into new markets away from its current homogeneous brand base.
A city-state's worth of heterogeneous people sets up significantly different social dynamics than a properly homogeneous population.
The region was inundated by a wave of homogeneous government housing.
Of course, some languages are just more homogeneous than others.
The system makes it easy to produce articles, but of course guarantees they'll be rather homogeneous.
It's an understandable goal, but one which many people believe is ultimately detrimental to society: a homogeneous society is ultimately a monotonous one.
The area where this trend is most noticeable is in mainframes, where companies are increasingly using homogeneous Unix servers rather than proprietary IBM systems.

# verdant

There is a common misconception that the world is verdant and wet.
The mountain road wound through the verdant foothills of the Caucasus Mountains.
The change in leadership from Carn to Cal was accompanied by a shift from a political scene dominated by rubber stamp politburos to one where dozens of verdant young politicians jockeyed for chairmanships of one of the many newly.
He stood on top of the mountain, and saw a verdant land before him.
'Spring has always been my favorite season in this verdant land,' Rose said.
Green lights bathed the ship in an otherworldly verdant glow as it slowly coasted to a stop in the middle of the track.
This is a reference to an ancient Greco-Roman myth; put "verdant".
These maps were scanned from a rare 17th century Dutch atlas, one of the most verdant depictions of New Holland to appear in print.
Hoping the verdant hillsides might yield a spring of fresh water, the tribe left the burnt-out village behind and ventured deeper into the hills.
The park has become a sort of oasis in the desert, with verdant grass and trees everywhere.
But, as befits the urban nature of the region's two largest cities, the landscaping is verdant and ornamental.
The mountainous island is a breathtaking view of vibrant forests and verdant valleys.
Outside the cities, much of the landscape is verdant and lush.
The American imagination paints the Wild West as a vast, verdant landscape populated by grizzled settlers and savage Indians.
After a long scenic route, you find yourself in a much more lush and verdant region.
It stretches out like a great verdant tapestry.
Verbosity seems inversely proportionate to verdant landscapes.
As the sun sets, the verdant landscape is left in a cloak of darkness.
"The mountains look verdant this time of year.
The city's outskirts give way to lush forests and verdant countryside.
Several patches of the planet appear to be covered with verdant forests.
The island's verdant forests and meadows are the perfect habitat for many species.
The view was ____________, with grassy hills _____________ with trees.
As a management consultant, I have to fly a lot, but my firm equalizes the cynicism and the verdant delusions that afflict us all.

# indolence

The plan had several flaws, the most obvious being its extreme indolence .
Managers need to keep up product knowledge in their area of specialty; they cannot afford to be indolence or apathetic about industry happenings.
He is forever blaming his troubles on the deviousness and indolence of others.
Countries should not aspire to create a welfare state that increases economic indolence.
He claimed that the Native Americans' only desire was to be left in peace, and that attempts by the settlers to civilize them were met with indolence and resistance.
The task was demanding enough to make me feel virtuous without being so demanding as to cripple my indolence.
After a long week of work, Ian is looking forward to his weekend of sporting indolence.
His detractors regard his decision to major in philosophy as a manifestation of indolence rather than intellectual curiosity.
The book's hero wins the day through trickery and indolence, leaving the reader with a poor role model.
Not all Romans were keen on embracing a life of constant leisure and _____.
The ___________ of the first generation of the new order seems to have been justified: over-indulged and without necessity for achievement, they soon became a decadent class who played no part in the development of their nations.
A crisis of over-management and indolence had sunk the company into a malaise.
The problem, I think, is less with a foreign-born terrorist residing here, as with the greater problem of American society's indolence.
The explanation may be a combination of the two forces: England's leave laws allowed employees to take days off, and Scots have traditionally been characterized by an indolence.
I could accomplish all of my work in half the time if not for the bureaucracy and indolence of my peers.
He lives in ignoble ease, and indolence, and luxury.
These daily updates were designed to help employees keep indolence.
Apathy and indolence were the defining qualities of this generation.
The soporific beat and sheer indolence of the music put me to sleep.
Some critics see the productivity problem as a consequence of US ____.
The native population of the region was effectively forced to do cash-crop farming and sell their produce to a company store, leading to widespread poverty and indolence.
Russia's debt distress is not the result of indolence on the part of the Russian people.
The disease is caused by a poor diet, lack of exercise, and general indolence.
The island's inhabitants were notorious for their indolence, frittering away the day on idle pastimes.
The idea that the poor keep reproducing because of a genetic tendency towards indolence is offensive on several levels.
After living abroad, Mary was struck by how comfortable the British had become with indolence.

# euphony

The most telling example of this euphony is in the word Genocide, which sounds far worse than Holokaust.
This euphony is difficult to convey in English.
Verbosity is sometimes no substitute for simplicity and euphony.
A common phenomenon in language change is that of a word's pronunciation changing to accommodate greater euphony.
The speaker's manner of speech was that of a cloying infomercial host, drowning in a sea of practiced euphony.
The company will attempt to maximize the use of euphony in all its marketing materials.
Many are motivated less by a sense of duty or ideology and more by the perks and euphony of public sector work.
Orwell uses simple words and short sentences to achieve subtle effects and a pleasing euphony throughout the book.
In oratory and poetry, for example, a deep, smooth tone is considered to be more euphony.
To him, the beauty of a line comes from its euphony rather than its meaning.
Putting 'euphony' in the following sentence:.
Putting 'euphony' in the following sentence:.
Predictably, it uses words like bevy and euphony.
The new house was nice but, for me, lacked euphony.
Well-chosen _____ can also improve the readability of a label.
Most of these words have to do with sound in some way: euphony and cacophony , for instance, are sounds that are pleasant or not pleasant to the ear, while tautology and pleonasm are examples of unnecessary.
As Janeites, you all have a strong sense of euphony, or the correct sound of a word.
Many writers use 'euphony' in their writing.
He wants to earn more money so he can afford to live some place with a euphony.
I don't know about you, but 'euphony' sounds like one of those words that just feels weird to say aloud.

# extol

He was released from his reeducation camp where he extolled the virtues of living according to the wisdom of President Alvarez.
The Prime Minister's reforms failed to extol the virtues of free market capitalism.
The annual reports are known for their optimism, which critics see as a way of extolling the company at the expense of common sense.
The King's advisors extol his virtues and ensure that all paintings, statues, and histories make him seem as great as possible.
The King's advisors extol his virtues and ensure that all paintings, statues, and histories make him seem as great as possible.
The government continues to extol the virtues of independence even as it begins to subsidize key industries.
The newspaper's editorials extol the government's policies.
The corporation has been extolled for its work in Africa.
When alone, I will often extol the virtues of a market-based society.
Your quest to become a bard is sure to delight and extol the virtues of the church.
They tended to extol the glories of the republic while lambasting the evils of fascism.
After the success of his first play, he was ____________ excessively by all his friends.
As the world economy teeters on the verge of a new recession, politicians are beginning to extol the benefits of fiscal responsibility.
Most of the books are complimentary, each containing extolling the author's virtues.
The new patron saint of the Hindu faith, a dead ringer for George Washington, seems to extol the benefits of free health care and gun control.
Rajarshi aims to create a world government through speech alone, extolling the virtues of a unified mankind.
The press release extolled the company's latest product, with words like "revolutionary" and "life-changing.
I was taught that humility is the bedrock of all virtue, and it is our duty to always _________ the many virtues of the Empire.
Gibbon extols the virtues of the old Roman Republic while condemning its decadence.
Sections of the crowd stood and extolled her efforts, a seemingly endless supply of offerings instantly materializing as gifts.
If you want to improve your writing, read the classics and then extol their virtues online.
Some environmentalists, for example, extol technology as the way to solve problems.
The authors of the report extol the nation's success in developing an open and competitive market.
The news stations are extolling the Government for the handling of the situation.
The general consensus is that she lived a life deserving of praise and that her deeds go beyond any words of extolment.
A smarter way to approach the problem is to just accept the premise of the argument and try to extol its virtues from that point.
The book does a good job of extolling the virtues of individualism while at the same time underscores how important it is for people to work together.

# hegemony

In a discussion of the nature of fascism, 'hegemony' is an important concept.
The leader of the newly unified Zalan Empire, Emperor Hierius, managed to establish hegemony over all the nations that had been fighting one another.
The company is an economic and cultural hegemony in the region.
He's going on about economic hegemony, mostly.
As nervous as the League of Nations made its members, they at least played by the rules, thus avoiding a fatal loss of hegemony .
For example, a nation may gain hegemony over a region by becoming the leading trader with all the major states there.
The American-dominated global order has persisted in various forms since World War II, but its hegemony is ending.
Make sure you capitalize the H in 'hegemony' because it is the first letter of a word!.
Due to its dominance in government, economy and culture, Standard English is more than just a language; it is effectively a hegemony.
Correct! A "hegemony" is dominance in a specific field, such as computing.
First put 'hegemony' in the following sentence: The US is seeking to maintain its hegemony through a number of economic measures.
After World War II, the United States enjoyed a brief period of Soviet hegemony.
If people just didn't understand that there is no "right" amount of culture or counterculture, only a balance between the two, then the hegemony of bland pop-culture will continue.
Some say the US has not sought to maintain its hegemony, but this is false: even as it's power has clearly withered, it's still thrown its military and economic weight around.
The 2008 crisis seems to have been an abrupt end to the American hegemony.
From the neoconservative view, US hegemony is a benevolent force that greases the skids for global free market.
The greatest test of all is whether the West can keep its hegemony over cinema, the world's foremost art form.
China is unlikely to achieve economic hegemony Moran Black Boots Women's 139661 Stuart M Black Grain perforated FqHxEHnf in the near future even with the advent of machine translation.
He's a prominent figure in the American intellectual scene, and he's written extensively on the rise of American ideological hegemony in the post-Cold War era.
Some economists say the benefits of the trade deal could be ___________ _________.
He was known as an economist and political theorist who believed only the most accomplished states could achieve cultural hegemony, which he defined as 'the moral justification of a groups claim to leadership'.
"hegemony" is a fancy word for something better described in simple words.
The contest for global hegemony was, in truth, as much a media battle as a military one.
An example of the difference in emphasis between a UK and US usage would be the word 'hegemony'.
The country needs to establish economic hegemony , and one way of doing that is by limiting the access its people have to foreign goods.
He is arguing that the EU will remain effective by encouraging the rest of the world's liberal trading blocs to band together in a kind of anti-hegemony alliance to confront protectionist block such as the one that emerges out of America.

# ersatz

They sipped coffees, wines and other assorted ersatzes to the background of perky circus music.
In the future, Western societies will have to accept ersatz technologies that mimic the capabilities of the lost networks.
The shelves are lined with ersatz coffee, tinned vegetables, and packets of "military rations".
Autonomous vehicles are already here, and they're only ersatz robots.
Some consumers may be drawn to ersatz coffee like that made from acorns.
Some stores even sell ersatz foods like candy bars and canned drinks designed to resemble the real thing.
While others are content just to own a small amount of shares, true investors buy ersatz shares.
Sausages in jars and ersatz coffee are shown to curious visitors.
They are likely for the most part to be ersatz-newly crafted and widely publicized, but with enough of a basis in fact that they could still be called true.
The weirdest ersatz relic I've ever encountered is at the Moosters Sports Bar in the basement of the NBA arena.
There was a time when you had to leave the borders of Nebrask to imbibe something besides bland, mass-produced, bland, ersatz, bland, alcoholic beverages.
The only ersatz lamb chops I have are made of turkey and are therefore not halal.
The only ersatz lamb chops I have are made of turkey and are therefore not halal.
Count backwards by ersatz units of seven from 100.
You have chosen the ersatz version of the car, which was made out of cardboard and coated in chai.
The gift shop featured a number of ersatz native artifacts, made in China.
This is not ersatz chat; I promise to only write back when I have something meaningful to contribute.
These new programs are an ersatz fusion of Western and Eastern spiritual traditions.
These new programs are an ersatz fusion of Western and Eastern spiritual traditions.
Although company policy is usually to reserve the bulk of its funding for projects with the potential for high profitability, these ersatz markets may warrant an exception due to their tendency toward price-inelasticity.
This new product is a kind of ersatz Rorschach test.
Some hotels are opting to ban certain guests to curb loitering by the ersatz homeless.
A mechanical insect makes an ersatz rendition of the national anthem.
You sip a little too much of the ersatz coffee substitute and grimace.
Canned orchestral music lends an ersatz air of sophistication to the proceedings.
Most college-level teaching is still done by humans, who are ersatz by comparison.
After a daylong strike, the factory would be running at ersatz capacity.
Traders are often more comfortable with an ersatz stylus and tablet rather than trying to use their fingers on a touchscreen.
We sat down to an ersatz dinner of reconstituted dried vegetables.
We have become a nation of ersatz provocateurs.
A successful imitation, such as synthetic fiber or ersatz coffee, can replace the original.
The quality ersatz coffee was enough to wake me up, but the instant coffee I used when I ran out left something to be desired.
I told him to wait outside, that we might at least ascertain whether he was fit for a better job than the ersatz coffee salesman he aspired to be.
An ersatz element might have some passing correlation to reality, but ultimately confuses more than it teaches.
The replacement for authentic product ersatz is vastly inferior.
To meet the demand, many producers turn to ersatz ingredients.
Several countries pursue policies that flood their markets with cheap ersatz coffee, which puts domestic producers out of business.
Before there was a shortage of workers, there was a surplus of consumers, who caused an ersatz economic boom by buying more cars and houses than they needed.
In the future, many people may look back ersatz experiences such as the one I've just described.
While much of the food in Cuba was getting scarce, the Rum & Coke was ersatz.
The shelves held champagne and ersatz beer, steak and horsemeat sausages.
A revolving stage is not a prerequisite, but ersatz sets or clever use of lighting can paper over many shortcomings.

# diurnal

Please put "diurnal" in the following sentence:.
diurnal variation (adjective)an astronomical term.
Solutions must be simple, because these people are diurnal; they're not spending all night thinking about this stuff.
Some animals are nocturnal, and some are diurnal.
Putting 'diurnal' into use:.
The rhythm of life in the reservation is still set by the sun, and the daily habits are diurnal.
He preferred to work at night and sleep during the diurnal hours.
We expect further updates to the app in the next few diurnal cycles.
Alongside the national anthem, there was a daily diurnal celebration of the Party and nation.
The first session was scheduled for 9AM each morning, which fortunately is the diurnal peak for human productivity.
He puts in six diurnal hours at the office, and spends the rest of the day cross-referencing his work.
The stock market is open, and most businesses are diurnal; the week has six days.
Nuclear power provides some of our electrical power today; the diurnal cycle, tides, and winds provide others.
The most recent valuation of the company was ____ billion.
The trading day is divided into two parts: the morning, and the _____.
Night falls and the diurnal cycle begins anew.
This is an example of a diurnal cycle.

# nadir

In the late twentieth century, many fundamental problems of humanity reached their darkest nadir.
In the mid-1980's, the company hit its nadir.
In the face of such adversity, hope was not abandoned, but it had reached its nadir.
History will likely find 2017 as a ________ in US-European relations, and it may well have been reached during the presidency of George W.
The company's fortunes reached a nadir at the end of the twentieth century when .
The quality of the films reached a nadir with a hastily-made movie about the president's dog.
When ____ occurs, most social schemes grind to a halt.
The president finds himself mired in the lowest approval ratings of his administration, at the nadir of his presidency.
The movement reached its intellectual nadir in the writing of Norman Vincent Peale, whose The Power of Positive Thinking became one of the best-selling books ever.
The financial collapse of 2008 was seen by some as the industry's nadir.
After the humiliations of the 1960s and 1970s, many argue that the US has hit a nadir and is in irreversible decline.
After the humiliations of the 1960s and 1970s, many argue that the US has hit a nadir and is in irreversible decline.
Some argue that the government had reached its nadir under General Pinochet.
After the stock market crash of 1987, many people questioned whether the boom times of the 1980s had ended, reaching a low point (or nadir).
Many critics agree that the quality of games has not reached a nadir .
Just as the city was hit by a triple whammy of soaring inflation, trade tariffs, and labor strikes, it reached a nadir .
The market had reached its nadir at the turn of the century.
The surprising feature of the current system is that the quality of university education has reached a new nadir.
The country reached its nadir under the leadership of Joseph Stalin.
The quality of public discourse has reached its nadir.
The transhumanist philosophy reached its nadir with a proposal for an initiative called 'Terra Prime' which would have seen all transhumans removed from Earth.
Regulation has definitely ________ since the crisis.
Although markets are cyclical, we may be approaching an economic __________.
Although I've done worse, overall this was one of my nadir moments.
In the first decades of the 21st century, we have reached the nadir of the apathy and antipathy that has gripped the world.
In the first decades of the 21st century, we have reached the nadir of the apathy and antipathy that has gripped the world.
Recent improvements notwithstanding, education programs can't help but suffer in the government's current fiscal straits--especially given that the states themselves are far from out of the nadir of their own fiscal shortfalls.
As the global financial crisis takes hold, it seems that we've reached the _______ of human achievement.

# soporific

The stuffy atmosphere, the repetitive speeches, the numbing repetition-- all served to make the experience positively soporific.
The market is nonetheless filled with soporific commodity news and fluff pieces about the founder's mother's recipe for cherry pie.
Some have even been found to contain powerful soporifics.
The speaker's monotone voice was a sure soporific, sending you off to dreamland within 15 minutes of the speech's start.
They tried to increase readership by adding more sports and human interest stories, but these proved just as boring as the economic stories they were supposed to be balancing, and had the added disadvantage of being soporific.
The play was long and arguably the most soporific event he had ever experienced.
Correct: The after-party was especially soporific due to fatigue from a job well done.
After the attack ads and the televised presidential debates, many feel that the American public has the attention span of a goldfish, and elections have become increasingly soporific.
The most common side-effect of aging is ________.
Some believed that golf would soon die out as a soporific pasttime for old rich men.
The bar is soothing a weary soul with its soporific effect.
Sometimes, you need to shut down your brain and just watch a soporific talk show.
Of course, paid public diplomats are better than no public diplomats at all, but soporific performances hurt the cause of educating the public.
The meetings are even worse than the most soporific lecture.
The market moves so slowly that it is a soporific for many traders.
The professor's droning voice was a soporific, and you find yourself nodding off.
Even if tasks are interesting, if the pace is soporific, productivity drops across the board.
"Y'know what this party needs? More speeches," a colleague remarks, sending you both into a brief fit of laughter before another soporific rendition of the national anthem begins.
Unfortunately, most classes at the university are like this , soporific lectures that put all sleep.
The professor's voice was a studied monotone, which quickly became soporific.
He knocked his opponent out with a lucky punch and then fell into an extended period of unresponsive sleep, which might be termed soporific.
As a sleep aid, the speaker's soporific monotone might be just the thing.
Many in the crowd that day found Keynes's speech soporific.
This conference was a well-planned soporific.
The professor's droning voice and humdrum presentation made for a thoroughly soporific experience.
Machiavelli's writings are the very definition of soporific.
The malaise is partly caused by the soporific lecture that is putting us all to sleep.
Unfortunately, the effect is soporific, putting most people to sleep after an immeasurable length of time.
Whatever he was drinking, we should've made more of it, it's soporific effects are remarkable.
The soothing sounds of the ocean and the gentle breaking of waves on the shore were a soporific that soon had you fast asleep.
Some find his voice soporific in the extreme.
After the stress of the day, the soporific effects of the lecture finally kicked in.
Some have criticized alarmists for their irrationally negative predictions, likening the tone to that of a soporific used to lull people to sleep.

# gaffe

You say, "Your gaffe about 30 years ago is the worst thing you've ever done.
Some saw your decision to meet with government leaders as a gaffe.
A British Royal named _____ has his footman get his eyebrows bushy.
He made a famous gaffe when he referred to New York's "gritty working class" neighborhoods.
David's gaffes in front of the press are thankfully few and far between.
This was a gaffe: when he criticised Putin's Russia.
He made a foreign policy gaffe when he criticized the Kremlin's actions in the former Soviet republic.
The only gaffe in the above tweet was 'opero'.
The gaffe was a disaster.
The Social Democrats made a gaffe when they promised to raise taxes.
The Washington Post reports that the president made a gaffe when he referred to the Prime Minister of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as from "Great Britain and Northern Ireland".
Many certainly saw your Sarah Palin impression as a gaffe.
He made a near-fatal __________ when he told the media his honest opinion about his boss's address to the nation.
The furor over Bernstein's comments about the market is a classic example of what linguists call a ________.
Many commentators believe that the Berlin "gaffe" was a calculated snub.
Many commentators believe that the Berlin "gaffe" was a calculated snub.
An insult of the gaffe variety was made when Mr.
Some critics see the productivity problem as chronic, others consider it more of a blip, or even a gaffe.
The gaffe of ending Seinfield's run too early is more than compensated by getting a Big Bang Theory lease.
The President's gaffe about the Iranian nuclear program has created tension between the U.
In a gaffe, Mike Pence revealed that he does not like the opposite gender.
Arguably, Microsoft defined a generation of computing with one famous gaffe.
programmers are prone to the occasional gaffe, and they were no exception.
Some politicians make verbal blunders known as "gaffes" that they later regret.
The politician's gaffe was soon being repeated in comments sections everywhere.
Give this company an inch and it will take a _____.
Then again, given the candidate's predilection for gaffes, maybe it's a blessing he didn't try.
It's the sort of verbal blunder that often escapes the notice of native speakers, but not wordsmiths trained to spot such a gaffe.
For one, it is increasingly seen as a gaffe to promote the Three Gorges Dam.
The latest gaffe likely secured the win for your opponent.
He made a political gaffe when he promised to raise taxes.
Last week, the prime minister made a gaffe when he likened the economic struggles of the common man to the financial issues of large corporate conglomerates.
He made a social gaffe when he asked the royal couple their ages.
A gaffe is a social blunder.
A gaffe is a social blunder.
The governor's _________ about the incident irreparably damaged his reputation.
The revelation that he tried to influence the election for personal gain was a prime ministerial gaffe.
The slip of the tongue is a quintessential social blunder sometimes called a gaffe.
A local news anchor, making a gaffe on the air, reveals that she controversially voted for the opposition party.

# compendium

The documentation for this project is a compendium of useful material for someone who wants to understand linguistics.
It may be as much of a 'compendium' of knowledge as it is a story.
The collection is a compendium of an entire field of study.
These were the _____ of the great economic historian and social critic.
The academic compendium is a common way of packaging intellectual property.
The "Encyclopedia of Earth" project has been joined by the developers of the Wikipedia, which is itself an online compendium of obscure knowledge.
You'll find the library a compendium of all the world's knowledge and then some.
The new manager is a compendium of all the worst aspects of humanity.
The company's annual report is a compendium of the achievements of the firm over the last year.
A compendium of facts is not the same as an analysis.
The novel is a compendium of eighteenth century beliefs and assumptions.
The Civilization franchise is a compendium of the best parts of Gibbon, The Disney Corporation, and the game Go.
The purpose of this book is to provide a compendium of all knowledge that is freely available to the public.
The post tracks a wide variety of social and economic statistics, making it a sort of compendium for economists, policymakers, and others.
The post tracks a wide variety of social and economic statistics, making it a sort of compendium for economists, policymakers, and others.
Your grand plan was to read the entire compendium from beginning to end.
As a compendium to our earlier work on Semantic Classification, we included a lexicon of conceptual definitions.
The new hiring process seeks to put together a compendium of skills and personalities, rather than focus on specific experience.
Some see crowdsourcing as a compendium of the collective brainpower of the masses.
Many of the students were unable to make heads or tails of this compendium of conflicting ideas.
a compendium of information about the candidates.
The compendium is a useful study tool.
This book is meant to serve as a compendium of the knowledge gained from centuries of research.
The compendium is useful for immediate problem solving, but the knowledge it provides is shallow and cannot be used for real deep dives.
After you have been working on the railroad for a few years you will have to take a pay cut, as a compendium of spurious expenses will be deducted from your pay.
The Economist is a weekly compendium of international affairs, including politics, culture, business, and science.
For this, flashcards are a compendium of knowledge, but are unpleasant to use.
The medical student bought a compendium of biochemistry.
The museum isn't just a compendium of painting and sculpture, which it has in abundance.
The library thus contains a compendium of human knowledge: fiction and non-fiction, text and pictorial, in languages both living and dead.
The nearly 35,000-word article was a compendium of Martin's strategic and tactical thoughts.
Some Wiki articles are compendiums of untrustworthy information.
First, a compendium of facts about the country would be presented.

# nostrum

Truisms, technical jargon, and obscure words that only appear to make the speaker seem smart are all ________________.
The problem is with a nostrum peddled by online marketers and best-selling gurus.
In a flash of brilliance, Ben created a nostrum to solve the problem.
The idea that the world could be made safer through American military power was a popular nostrum in the years after the September 11, 2001 attacks.
The point is that governments need to do something, not that they must embrace some particular nostrum.
These nostrums have a quasi-mystical ideology behind them and tend to mobilize people.
The same is true of the financial and economic nostrums offered by Derman, Roubini and others.
Aspirin, morphine, and quinine were among the first medicines to be isolated from plants and became known as _____.
The most common reform nostrum in education is smaller classrooms.
High-frequency trading is not a nostrum that we need to invent to feel good about ourselves.
The trouble with these nostrums, however, is that in addition to being toxic they don't work.
The single most important issue for the company is its lack of leadership; clever strategies and nostrum.
He dismissed the so-called experts and boldly proclaimed that he could solve the problem himself first, with his nostrums.
Several nostrums were suggested for reviving the economy.
The same is true of more dangerous ideas, some of which amount to intellectual nostrums.
The problem is that many executives do not want to deal with the problem, so they hide behind baseless nostrums.
The nostrum of heavier spending, more borrowing, and new taxes to solve the financial crisis will not solve anything.
The market has enough of quacks and nostrums passed off as medicine.
There are companies that sell nostrums to make your pet look healthier.
It's clear that the company is peddling some economic nostrum that is just as unhealthy as an Atkins diet.
In a pharmaceutical nostrum, "patent medicine" was an acceptable term for what in modern parlance would be called a "quack cure".
The problem is that the nostrums currently in favor rely on government intervention.
A doctor of the groovy persuasion prescribes a strong helping of _________ to counter the epidemic.
The company offers a wide range of nostrums to help their customers stay healthy.
The reason that the government isn't taking the problem as seriously is that no solution has presented itself, or, rather, a plethora of nostrums have been offered up, all of them futile.
The funding increase is a nostrum that will give the appearance of helping, but won't address the real problems.

# dyspeptic

He is typically dyspeptic and complains frequently about his wages.
"These are my last orders to you as your captain," the dyspeptic man says.
For the dyspeptic critic, the cup was half-empty.
For dyspeptic readers who find this last solution too easy, the Review has provided a second option: write your local legislator to request that they introduce the Bills mentioned in this article!.
It would be better if these tools could be used to bolster dyspeptic Math professors rather than distracting them.
While other parts of the company had their share of LOLs, the HR department was typically dyspeptic.
Although the company has been profitable for the past four years, it is portrayed as making few new products of interest to consumers, and its recent large dividends have made many dyspeptic.
Some customers are dyspeptic, and your boss is blaming you.
A dyspeptic old man is less likely to marry and have children than a happy one.
Some dyspeptic, hard-bitten newsman would use the company's own pessimistic language against it, and send stock into the toilet as a result.
Some dyspeptic, hard-bitten newsman would use the company's own pessimistic language against it, and send stock into the toilet as a result.
The dyspeptic managing editor was perpetually angry, but the reporters loved him because he was Afd Nile friendly.
The team has a dyspeptic manager who is infamous for his foul mood, so no one wants to risk mentioning how long he has stayed in the office today.
He was a tall, thin man with a dyspeptic expression.
I'd take dyspeptic over charismatic any day of the week.
He turned out to be a dyspeptic sergeant.
It's not that the government doesn't care about citizens, it's just a little dyspeptic on the subject of banks.
The dyspeptic German manager is the most exciting thing to happen around here.
The dyspeptic editorials in the local newspaper are notorious within your industry.
Many people think dyspeptic economists were the ones to warn against internet stocks in the 1990s.
A dyspeptic old man is not a suitable mascot for a global brand.
It was a stultifying procession of patriotic songs, dyspeptic skits, and bald propaganda.
The dyspeptic man orders the Chef's Special at every chance.
The dyspeptic looking fellow in the corner explains that he is a member of the local equivalent of the KGB.
The dyspeptic author is not likely to produce great art.
The dyspeptic man is not well liked.
Some dyspeptic rant or another.
Some will be dyspeptic about a policy allowing more immigration of young workers.
He is often dyspeptic, and takes it out on his underlings.
The dyspeptic crowd slowly disperses.
The dyspeptic man -- he carried a large scuffed leather briefcase and wore an ill fitting dark blue suit of uncertain vintage, and had a face like an angry undertaker-- turned his frown towards Zo!ek.
The dyspeptic man suffered from unpleasant feelings of discontent and irritability because of his poor digestion.
The dyspeptic author fades off mid-sentence while complaining about something.
The dyspeptic frog sat on the mat and looked askance at the shiny key.
The professors had grown increasingly dyspeptic, taking out their frustration on the students.
A dyspeptic old man decides to kill his nephews to get his family fortune.
A dyspeptic old man is not the most cheerful traveling companion.

# pastiche

Need "A pastiche is a work of literature, music, or art that imitates the style or character of the works of one or more other artists.
The band are a pastiche of eighties rock cliches.
I longed to leave, but could not since the show had not yet reached its ultimate point: a pastiche of the American Musical Drama.
A good pastiche mimics its source material well enough to appear indistinguishable from it to the casual observer.
One example of this is _____, in which a group pays homage to an earlier artist or movement by imitating their style.
The Bored Festival takes pastiche to an extreme, with parties themed around such diverse elements as: _____, _____, grad school, childhood toys, and cooking.
In the years before his dismissal, Apple's products became increasingly similar to their competition, as if created by a pastiche of the greatest hits of Samsung and Sony.
I'm guessing 'pastiche' means 'paste' here, but I'm not sure.
The opening ceremony was a bizarre pastiche of British stereotypes and local culture.
The concert was a pastiche of all things Irish, from the obvious bawdy pub songs to the slightly more subtle invocations of Celtic mythology.
A pastiche is a work of art that makes use of a variety of styles or objects to create something new.
Many have compared Stensons' photographs to the Romantic paintings of ________.
It's a pastiche of every celebrity basketball fan.
In a pastiche, the writer intentionally mimics the style of another writer.
The language is a pastiche of cut-and-pasted Latin and Anglo-Saxon.
The text may be a pastiche of the language used in various pop songs.
For a moment, I think the music has stopped, but then a pastiche of familiar nursery tunes begins to play as the toys move stiffly in a synchronization that would put the Rockettes to shame.
The game includes a pastiche of the cutscenes from Super Mario Sunshine, for instance.
The architecture is a bizarre pastiche of Mediterranean, Romanesque, and Moorish styles.
I don't think I've heard the word "pastiche" before, can you please explain its meaning? I put 'pastiche' in the following sentence:.
State of the industry speeches, pastiche commercials, and paeans to the Leader's greatness dominated the channel.
The artist presented visual data gathered from the internet through a Mona Lisa style digital filter to create a loving pastiche of 19th century art.
The party was nothing but a pastiche of ideology and '80s pop culture.
The company's latest product is a pastiche of Apple's design philosophy.
His writing is a pastiche of New Age platitudes, business school hackery, and psychiatric self-help.
The building's lobby is a pastiche of Mayan, Roman, and Medieval European architectural influences.
After this experience, he vowed to only read "serious" literature, avoiding anything that seemed too pop culture oriented or as merely a pastiche of other works.
Remember the Titans was a pastiche of every sports movie cliche that had come before.
In "The Quarry," Ben Marcus perfectly melds the voices of many authors and much philosophy into a delectable pastiche.
While the band released a new single every few months, the media generally promoted awareness of PriPara with radio and television specials, occasional concerts, pastiches of popular reality shows like Survivor or The Voice, and even a comic book.
These 21st century dilemmas form the background of a pastiche of responses.
Writers use pastiche to pay homage to and/or borrow from the works of others, sometimes engaging in self-parody.
The lyrics of 1990s gangsta rap, with its talk of bitches and niggaz, seems like a pastiche of the blaxploitation films of the 1970s.

# catalyst

The central bank has been acting as a catalyst for the current rally.
The svelk's fur tingled as the shaman continued the ritual, the catalyst for a perfect storm.
Steiner hopes the magazine will be a catalyst for intellectual discussion.
The government is a coordinator and catalyst for the progress of an economy.
The main character is a catalyst who manages to make things happen but is not really in control of them.
The revelation was a catalyst for revolution, leading to the establishment of a constitutional republic.
The economy is a complex system in which change occurs slowly, and policymakers are the catalysts for that change.
The project will be a catalyst for change in the industry.
The dramatic overthrow of several governments in the region was the catalyst for much economic reform.
The dramatic overthrow of several governments in the region was the catalyst for much economic reform.
The country's leading entrepreneurs have begun hiring again, serving as a catalyst for increased market activity.
New technologies have been the catalyst.
A catalyst is a substance that changes the rate of a chemical reaction without itself undergoing any permanent changes.
A catalyst is a substance that changes the rate of a chemical reaction but is not itself changed by the reaction.
The financial markets are often a catalyst for the rapidly changing forces of globalization.
This innovation was the catalyst for the wide-scale automation of media production.
The internet is a catalyst for the spread of information.
The visit of a high-ranking dignitary often acts as a catalyst for social change.
Anthropic arguments are sometimes put forth as a catalyst for understanding the meaning of existence.
A catalyst is a substance that changes the rate of a chemical reaction but is not itself altered.

# panoply

Another turgid lecture on patriotism and the panoply of the republic.
The panoply of the modern transportation fleet includes high-speed trains, subways, and buses.
For the grand opening, the paper mounted a panoply of events: a speech by the ambassador, a chowder tasting, and a walking tour around town.
The show consisted of a panoply of traditional American music, including jazz and folk.
With over 10,000 symbols, the Chinese written language provides a rich panoply of potential to spawn new words.
Financial innovation is typically a panoply of tools, which are fairly useful on their own and brilliant in combination.
The old city is a panoply of architectural styles, from ancient greek revival to art deco.
The old city is a panoply of architectural styles, from ancient greek revival to art deco.
'panoply' is usually defined as the following:.
'panoply' is usually defined as the following:.
For the holiday, she wore a simple black dress, with the panoply of traditional mourning decorations.
The university presents a panoply of opportunities.
"Goethe was a man who accomplished many things in his life and enjoyed panoply of pleasures.
His only experience of the world had been the daily grind at the factory, and the weekend trips with his mother to the shops, where he looked around with interest at the brightly-lit panoply.
At this time, in the panoply of ancient religions, one religion stood apart.
The panoply of voter suppression tactics in the United States is a developed, refined art form.
The civil unrest sweeping the region has brought a panoply of new challenges.
Search articles containing 'panoply'.
Education is the panoply of a civilised society.
The panoply of familiar skyscrapers punctuated with the occasional pointy skyline gave way to a horizon framing pastoral scenes of fields and trees and neat houses in rows.
The American judicial system represents an unparalleled _____ of protection against official abuse of power.
In the next hour, the forces of the other European powers, accompanied by their native allies, would be practically eliminated from the battlefield, with only a panoply of skeletal corpses to show for their once existance.
The panoply of ancient weapons hung on the walls.
In this next sentence, 'panoply' means a great variety.
The panoply of Disney characters, all of whom are rendered in the most painstaking detail, come to life as performers wearing full-body suits maneuver the character's signature moves with the aid of peculiar control mechanisms that give the suits their characteristic.
Our new app has nearly arrived, and with it, a whole panoply of new features!.
The chocolates are arranged in a lavish ____ of colors.
As he spoke, his harsh, flat pronunciations detonating like the snap of a flag in a still winter's noon, the dark horizon behind him was shattered with a panoply of new colors and shapes.
Our tour takes in both the panoply of World War II icons and obscure venues.
The panoply of ancient Rome included gladiators, trumpeters, and war elephants.
The panoply of ancient Rome included gladiators, trumpeters, and war elephants.
Unable to locate 'panoply'.
The panoply of crimes against humanity included sexual violence, attacks against prisoners, enslavement, and deliberate starvation.
The screen showed a colorful parade with a panoply of multicolored flags.
The panoply of different events bewildered the visiting team.
As the mind gains understanding of the panoply of biological life, it also comes to comprehend its own place within this complexity.
The panoply of nations is represented, with even a few rare and legendary ones thrown in.
These tools have created a whole panoply of new content and communication possibilities for our users.
The firm offers a rich panoply of investment products to private clients.
The market has forces of demand and supply, laws of demand and supply, panoply of economists, pundits and watchers- all with a model of how the market will behave.

# magnate

The world's largest insurance companies were all located in this city and run by magnates.
The industry is dominated by a handful of energy magnates who have monopoly control over the market.
The industry was dominated by a small group of magnates who owned many of the publishing houses and printing presses.
Although New Space is a popular term for the current status of private spaceflight, it's also known as the 'magnate' level.
A ___________ is an influential member of the ruling class.
The airline industry is dominated by three or four powerful magnates who are widely hated for their high airfares and questionable business practices.
You'll never guess which textile magnate has been arrested for fraud.
Some of these magnates, such as John D.
But the fall of Communism has changed the landscape: the club are no longer seen as street urchins but as plucky underdogs, and Ometa has become a magnate with Italian suitors.
Some industrialists became cross-marketing magnates, as Franklin Murphy and Fred Harvey did.
These developments are of considerable interest to oil magnates.
Some business process outsourcing companies are run by IT magnates, such as HCL's founder.
Construct a new sentence of your own to use 'magnate'.
A self-made magnate, he made his fortune in trading, owns much of the area's industry.
The United States has not seen the birth of a new industry leader since Bill Gates in the early 1980s, yet today America has several magnates in Google's Sergey Brin and Larry Page and Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg.
The exchange is still dominated by a few telecom magnates.
The "magnate," or Central Player, runs the nation: building infrastructure and industries, making laws, creating armies and starting wars.
Many people are put off by the showy lifestyles of the software magnates.
One consequence of trade is an increase in the number of magnates who can afford to engage in representational politics.
The company was initially financed by a _____________ who saw a business opportunity in the nascent aviation industry.
He was a railroad magnate with a vast fortune.

# conscript

The government's strategy is to conscript young men to fight for the army.
In the place of the shattered army a new one formed, composed no longer of volunteers but of conscripts.
Regimes that rely mainly on drafting citizens to fill their military ranks risk seeing a decrease in morale as conscripts sometimes lack enthusiasm for the cause.
Another possibility is to create a world government, chosen through some sort of conscript army.
The government conscripted the nation's youth into army and pushed them into battle.
Although he tried to avoid it, he was conscripted into the army against his will.
The government is conscripting farmers to grow adeniums.
The annual lottery, a conscript noted, is not even fair: names are picked out of a bowl, and only males older than 18 may be chosen.
The annual lottery, a conscript noted, is not even fair: names are picked out of a bowl, and only males older than 18 may be chosen.
He was one of several young men conscripted to fight in a senseless war.
The _________ of healthy but unwilling men into the armed forces is controversial.
The _________ of healthy but unwilling men into the armed forces is controversial.
The Kingdom retains a standing army of conscripts and reserves.
"Our only hope is to conscript citizens.
The ____________ of a portion of artistically-inclined members of the middle class to the armed forces has been a persistent issue over the past few years.
After a crushing defeat, he was one of the first conscripts sent to the front.
The government has been forced to conscript peasants as soldiers in order to fight the war.
The company has been conscripting your old high school classmates.
If we do not fill these quotas, we will be conscripting you, and I'd rather not do that.
You conscripted your secretary to take notes about what people say in the conference call so you don't fall asleep while you're on it.
Some countries, such as Israel and Sweden are moving away from conscription.
The threat of full conscription has helped to make the draft popular with most citizens.
The military draft was instituted to increase the number of healthy young men available to conscript.
The United States has gone to several wars in the past decade or so on a conscript army.
Some were able to avoid the most dangerous tasks by failing at seemingly easy tasks, such as conscripts who couldn't swim and died at their posts in countless rip current deaths.
The soldiers were mostly conscripts, and morale was dangerously low.
In mid-2013, the military carried out its first conscription lottery in two decades.
The __________ citizens were forced to serve on the front lines.
The government lowered the draft age to eighteen and conscripted thousands more men.
In the 2016 presidential race, candidates are not just promising to support X, but also to conscript Y into implementing it.
Defymenation: The act of conscripting people into the military.
These two problems conscript bankers and other government employees into the army, as well as farmers and others whose work is critical to the war effort.
One of the military's most important functions in Communist society is the conscription of all males between the ages of 18 and 21 for two years of service.
All healthy males are conscripted to serve in the colony fleet for a minimum of two years.
However, they were not technically conscripts as they maintained their former rank and command structure.
The highest-priority languages may be those in which you have the least ability to conscript native speaker help.
As the war effort intensified, the military began conscripting young men into service.
The ____________ was an attempt to mass produce magical weapons by breeding war trolls.
Domestic criticisms of conscription range from concerns about the inequitable way it is enforced to religious objections to the very idea of a standing army.
The first thing a conscript learns is how to march in formation.
The station had several advantages, but the sheer size of its audience was not one of them; they could gain more with far less effort by conscripting children as scorekeepers.
The government is considering conscripting young people to serve in the military.
The government began to conscript young men.
Convince me that the following sentence is correct: Department of Defense employees are conscripts of Washington.
The ____________ of every man in the nation, regardless of his circumstances, is seen as a necessary step towards rebuilding the nation.
The army has been most successful at filling its ranks with _________ (www.
The problem as I see it is that, unlike ________, the only reason people are conscripted into the military is so they can kill other people.
In the modern era, most nations rely on a volunteer military backed up by a draft or conscript army in emergencies.
The combination of brutal war and conscription has created unrest in the empire, leading to rebellions.
The population is being conscripted to work.
You conscript loyal citizens and arm them with the best weapons and armor available.
We may be fast approaching the time when we will have to conscript our children.
Looking at my own situation, I couldn't help but wonder if my introduction to the world of work had been designed to make me feel like a widget in some uncaring factory's conscript labor force.
Vampire agencies have conscripted hundreds of thousands of qualified economists and financial analysts.
The ___________ was drafted into the army.
A far cry from the all-volunteer military of today, the Royal Navy once relied on press gangs to conscript sailors.
A big problem is that governments often conscript soldiers.
The government is attempting to conscript doctors to perform these procedures.

# catharsis


# philistine

The crude colors of a children's show could never aspire to the artistic heights of a Renaissance painting, in my humble philistine opinion.
As the film was intended only for philistines, the director was unconcerned that only philistines would ever watch it.
Nations with limited domestic oil reserves sometimes attempt to cultivate a philistine attitude towards the arts in order to decrease enthusiasm for Petroleum usage.
A philistine is someone who is indifferent to or dismissive of culture or the arts.
The philistines have been out in force this week.
At least the government has its best interests at heart, unlike the selfish, hedonistic, philistine approach of the private sector.
I may be a philistine but I don't see anything particularly interesting about books.
As a philistine, she did not approve of the museum's decision to exhibit the sculpture garden.
You look at him as if he's a philistine for suggesting that you watch a movie.
The philosophy of science is, in some ways, a field that still attracts a lot of philistines.
The philistines have been proposing the demolition of our philharmonic hall for a shopping mall for years.

# repast

You picked at your repast of dark bread and pale stew.
Outing one's self as a spy would be a sure way to face a grim repast at the executioner's hands.
The investors soon hit a snag when they realized they did not have enough money for the repast, let alone the rest of the production.
He took a moment to order his lunch from the waiter: a four-star repast of poached kipper and new potatoes in hollandaise sauce.
Refreshments will be available before the speeches, and a light repast will be served after.
Refreshments will be available before the speeches, and a light repast will be served after.
Pack a picnic lunch and eat elsewhere to make the most of your repast.
After the repast, the waiters brought in a gigantic cake.
The cafe offers a breakfast pastry, a sandwich, or a salad as a repast.
He could not afford to be choosy about his repast, and happily devoured the scraps.
A spectacular fireworks display lit up the night's sky, the finale of the evening's repast.
After the show, we had a remarkably good repast of chicken in wine sauce, mashed potatoes, asparagus, bread rolls, and mince pie.
"let's get a repast, then study our lines for tomorrow," you say.
But put "repast".
A good repast of fish and honey cakes is a traditional way to celebrate Gahu's birth.

# vitiate

Without essential materials, their legal system cannot vitiate their crimes against humanity.
Verbosity and ambiguity creep in, so play close attention to the contract as the sentences can vitiate meaning.
Complaints that the system vitiates the academic atmosphere.
The efforts to maintain a permanent state of preparedness, maintain armaments of war, and maintain troops in the field would vitiate any peace treaty that was signed.
Too much rest and relaxation can vitiate a soldier's fighting spirit.
The victory seemed to vitiate all his doubts.
The terrorists have found our every weakness, exploited them, and completely vitiated our advantage.
The value of the stock market is unlikely to be vitiated by a few days of poor market conditions.
The problem is that the new policy vitiates one of the core values that make this organization great.
The problem with this approach is that it vitiates the purpose of the education system.
Skitish youths who need to write papers for school vitiate their own efforts by trying to plagiarize mine.
The advent of mass schooling vitiated the utility of memorization.
The optimistic forecasts are predicated on several factors, any of which could vitiate the entire premise.
The expectation that clients would have regular access to a doctor, and sufficient food and shelter, could vitiate any success the program might have in encouraging people to have more children.
It is through the Internet that English words, whose meaning and usage might have been vitiated by changing social conditions, are revivified.
The report is supposed to help policy makers assess the effectiveness of existing programs and identify new areas of potential concern, but the GAO's recommendations are often dismissed as irrelevant by members of congress who are determined to "vitiate".
The major argument against the administrative method is that it vitiates the very purpose of language education.
As the new official rhetoric flew in the face of thirty years of established communist theory, it was feared that an anti-reform coup or rebellion was possible if the more or less universal support for reform could be vitiated.
Each of these decisions may have represented the best available option, but together they vitiate the purpose of the project.
The main purpose of the endowment, according to the church, is to "vitiate the potential for extramarital affairs.
Watch out for homophones! "Vicate" is not a word, "vitiate" is.
Use 'vitiate' in the following sentence:.
The goal is to make sure that nothing can vitiate your resolve when the time comes.
They may have been able to vitiate the impact of the more conscientious objectors by taking advantage of the expansion of the economy.

# waft

Smelled the flowers? Well, time to make the prancing ponies waft their scent along with some intellectual equestrianism.
The scent of blooming flowers waft on the breeze.
The scent of blooming flowers waft on the breeze.
The pleasant smells of the banquet wafted gently through the Grand Ballroom.
The content of the experience was gorgeous; watching a sunset wafting through the clouds.
The smell of manure wafted up from the floors below.
The smells of diesel and fried food would waft into the cabin as the bus made its stops.
The smell of fresh baked bread wafting from the booths promises to be another draw this month.
The smell of cheap beer and greasy food wafted in from the all-you-care-to-eat cafeteria.
The smell of fresh bread wafts from the kitchen into the dining room.
The sound of the summer wind, wafting through the desolate city, is a lonely one.
As the lights dimmed, a low hum began to waft through the air.
The smell of diesel wafted in from the trucks idling outside.
Despite the dreary content, the auditorium was filled to capacity with rows of young people, wafting a pleasant whiff of perfume and aftershave into the air.
Other changes include the elimination of two analog inputs and the wafting of steam from one of two maintenance hatches.
The smell of cheap beer, stale cigarettes and sweat wafted through the air.
As a result, the toxic emotional environment was beginning to waft out over the otherwise-festive crowd.
The sweet smell of exhaust wafted into the stadium as the march began.
The wind carried the aroma of cooking food wafting in through the open windows.
The smell of freshly-baked muffins, drifting down the street, wafted up to the cramped walk-up I called home.
The gentle scent of warm lemon cookies wafted in from the kitchen.
Our waiter wafted over to our table.
The smell of fresh waffles wafting from the kitchen on Sunday morning.
A bracing sea breeze wafted in through the open doors.
The scent of pine wafted from the trees as I put my face to the cool, crisp air.
The government wafted the devalued money away and promised new coins, which took months to arrive.
What memories I have of reading there are chiefly of the sweet hayseed aroma wafting in during the summer.
The smell of a dozen different cooking spices wafted up into the market square.
The scent of fresh-baked bread wafting from the open window was one of the things he missed most.
The smell of fresh baked cookies wafted through the house and into every corner.
"Labor's fresh and eager," the matchmaker says, wafting incense to stir up the scent of the flowers.

# expiate

The company's employees were encouraged to set examples of workplace behavior, and thus expiate the company's sins.
They were there to expiate the sins of the brand new CIC building.
Your payment does not expiate your sins.
Since he had full access to the company's books, he was able to expiate his sins against the company by stealing small amounts of money on a daily basis.
As the years went by and the regime ruthlessly expiated all opposition, many of these jokes were lost.
But it seemed that the markets were determined to expiate their sins.
Hopefully the gift shop has that chocolate you like; I want to expiate my earlier mistake and get you some.
To expiate is to atone or make amends for.

# neophyte

The problem is that no neophyte can see the whole picture, even if they have an overview of the entire situation.
Most of the content here is aimed at neophytes.
The first people to go were the neophyte rebels, who had done little but taken the fall when the bombings occured.
The new hire is already displaying the offensive cluelessness common to neophytes.
And it's certainly not intended as a text to train baboonneophytes in the fine art ofstock market speculation.
Other than the slow pitch softball team, the "neophytes" are the worst team.
Others, however, saw great opportunity in the change, such as the movements emphasizing neophyte groups.
You are a true neophyte when it comes to this.
You are a true neophyte when it comes to this.
He served three years as an apprentice before becoming a journeyman and so was skilled - if a neophyte - on his own.
Unfortunately, he was too much of a political neophyte to defeat the entrenched opposition.
A neophyte investor, like the protagonist, would be better off with index funds.
Once enrolled, a neophyte trader is paired with an experienced mentor.
The neophyte was unfamiliar with the rate of bolts and it took some time.
The problems neophyte politicos face are often of the same sort.
No longer would you see a fully-grown warrior and his grizzled commander from the back of the battlefield; no, you would see, instead, a collection of wide-eyed, dumbstruck neophytes wondering if they would make.
Traditionally, veterans are more likely to vote for hawkish candidates, while neophytes prefer dovish ones.
A quick learner, he soon became an apprentice to Confucius, and was well on his way to becoming a neophyte.

# munificent

The munificent patron provided funds for a new addition to the museum.
The munificent benefactor was Mr.
The munificent patron was silent for a moment.
The project has been widely hailed as a boon to humanity and the munificent David is sure to win no shortage of praise.
A munificent gift to the National Gallery was lost by an inept thief, who was caught red-handed, to the great amusement of reporters and the tabloid press.
The munificent gift was given out of gratitude for your loyal service.
Clumsy, obvious, and munificent, the type of charity favored by the rich is nevertheless important.
He was rather munificent; his teachers had never had it so good.
Such a munificent gift!.
For a variety of reasons, the rulers of nation-states tend to become munificent towards the arts.
Give a munificent gift to one of the many crowdfunding campaigns out there.
The munificent philanthropist was feted for his donations to the local children's hospital.
The government has been quite munificent with the aid funds.
Civic fundraising also became increasingly munificent during this period, as a growing population of middle-class philanthropists emerged.
Your mind turns to the munificent allowance that your parents make you every month.
The grants of land given to settlers helped encourage expansion and development, but the proprietors were often munificent and sold land too freely.
The munificent philanthropist left the hospital $10 million dollars.
In an increasingly munificent mood, the Baron launched into several bottles of fine wine.
The company has been munificent in its donations to the city's hospitals.
Our record player had one very munificent setting: 45rpm.
He has been a munificent patron of the performing arts.
A second theory claims that humans have become munificent precisely because they are happy: evolutionary success goes to societies that take care of their members, and we have grown successful.
A second theory claims that humans have become munificent precisely because they are happy: evolutionary success goes to societies that take care of their members, and we have grown successful.
The munificent patron provided all the funding for the arts.

# paean

The performance was a paean to great achievements in agriculture, with a few scenes of natural beauty mixed in.
You may be a hero to your company, but you are an enemy of the paean I sing to the glory of the Emperor.
Before long, I was bored by the continual paeans to his glory.
The patriotic songs were interspersed with paeans to the Party, and each event ended with a group photo of the participants.
The editor of an in-house publication is writing a paean to the CEO, praising his wise leadership.
He sounded like a broken man, a tired patriot spinning empty paeans to a nation that did not longer exist.
A paean to the nation's prosperity rang through the auditorium.
The speakers paean to the glory of the regime was met with stony silence from the audience.
A paean to a lost era of top hats and monocles, Rogers' piece is an attempt to reverse engineer the pre-war culture that gave rise to such a creature.
Some people enjoy paeans to the wonders of technology while I find them tedious at best.
A paean to the advances of modern technology and how they have improved the lives of human beings everywhere.
A paean to the greatness of the Fatherland, it was a stultifying procession of patriotic songs, insipid skits, and bald propaganda.
The opening ceremonies were a paean to the director's parents, who had donated much of the land used to build the new stadium.
The opening ceremony offers a paean to the industrial triumphs of the nation, complete with mines, oil wells, and factories.
A paean to Big Brother, his greatness, and his stalwart protection of us, the proles.
The museum was a paean to the successes of the former USSR.
The paeans for the free market are no less extravagant.
The paean to corn was a little excessive even for you.
They were a liquidated class, purged through show trials and paeans of praise to the glorious leaders.
The government newspaper is a paean to the greatness of Kim Jong-Un, and a demonstration of the supremacy of his rule.
The next few days are a paean to the glories of the host culture, and to the destined demise of the enemy.
Some critics see the productivity problem as a paean to our productive capacity.

# maelstrom

Having successfully navigated the red tape, you're caught in a maelstrom of instructions, all designed to prevent you from doing your job.
One of Karth's most powerful weapons is his ability to control the _____ of Chaos, which he can summon or send away at will.
The market felt like a maelstrom of confusion and uncertainty.
The island's initial post-colonial boom of tourism and development has turned into a spiraling maelstrom of crime and corruption.
The first use of a pesticide to kill a locust swarm is made when the Moroccan maelstrom is killed off with lead arsenate.
There's no time to learn a new language when you're struggling to survive in the maelstrom of the battlefield.
Many libraries have closed since the internet, but a few maelstroms of independent thought still exist.
Other parts of the panel concentrated on the challenges facing the health-care industry and faced a particularly maelstrom caused by the rise of so-called ?job-killing? regulations.
The situation is a bit of a maelstrom right now and it's difficult to sort out.
In a maelstrom of noise and speculation, the leader of this faction is _________.
Oblivious to the maelstrom of propaganda that had engulfed the country, she turned up the radio.
The market seems to have been caught up in a maelstrom of selloffs.
After the debt crisis, the continent slid into a maelstrom of hyperinflation and depression.
At the end of the month, we went into survival mode: a maelstrom of fire, hunger, fear, and dysentery.
Unpaid bills, heaps of useless paper, and endless frustrations with provincial bureaucrats plunged Isaac's business into a maelstrom from which it never recovered.
The aftermath of the Reunion War was a maelstrom of parliamentary inquiries, legal inquiries, and public inquests.
Heidegger's disruptive influence in the 20th century maelstrom consists in his attempt to blast a path out of academic philosophy towards the same goal that literature and art had found: such that the project of fundamental ontology, to take.

# bilk

The leaked plans are scant, but the plans appear to come from a wizened bureaucrat trying to bilk more resources from the Empire.
The leaked plans are scant, but the plans appear to come from a wizened bureaucrat trying to bilk more resources from the Empire.
The same concept is at work in modern times, with the most successful businesses finding ways to provide value while also bilk their customers.
The magician's artful tricks succeeded in bilk the naive tourists out of their money.
Most of the reform discussion centers on finding ways to pay for the staggering legal costs of the rich, who now resort to ever more ingenious bilkings of the system.
They engage in a bizarre series of shell companies, seemingly designed to bilk the 830 provisions of the tax code.
If he could bilk one client out of money, he could bilk more.
The government's attempts to outsource work to offshore website designers is just one of the ways it has been attempting to bilk tax dollars from the nation.
One of your scouts, Eddings, is from Rask, where he claims the Imperials are bilking their soldiers of pay.
As a result, several businesses were shut down, and the victims have since been trying to bilk the insurance companies.
"Don't try to bilk me, George," you snarl.
The other was to take what you could and leave before they caught you, trusting that your skill and speed would allow you to bilk the law.
The problem is that some see him as an opportunistic, bilking the government for every penny while delivering shoddy merchandise in return.
He was a fugitive from the law when he bilked four Georgia banks of $825,000 in 1902.
This is a very serious offense, one that can only be bilked by the perpetrator's untimely death.
Vietnam has yet to truly join the community of nations, still plagued by corruption and bilking foreign businesses.
The tax bill passed despite opposition claims that the government was attempting to "bilk" the public.
The letter is a masterpiece of obfuscation that relies on liberal use of obscure terminology and even outright bilk .
When the state attempts to take responsibility for the well-being of its citizens, it can degenerate into a system where people use the state as a tool to bilk taxpayers.
A battalion-sized unit attempts to bilk the local peasants.

# truculent

Change the word in this sentence from 'truculent' to an adjective that means stubborn yet willing to listen to reason: Truculent bonds encourage risk taking that can be useful when attempting to expand into new types of assets,.
Some of the jousting scenes look quite dangerous, and the people involved seem more fun-loving and truculent than their modern descendants.
Last week you saw a particularly ___________ hustler arguing with a ticket-taker at the entrance to the city zoo.
His electoral success has been built on a foundation of racist, misogynist, and truculent nationalism.
For example, one of the world's most common birds, the European starling, is as big as a raven but is as aggressive as a truculent rooster.
Siblings can be very cruel to one another, not just in the truculent attacks, but also in the passive-aggressive insults.
He had already given one interview to the Christian Science Monitor and found, to his dismay, that the reporter was a young man with a truculent attitude and a heck of a lot of impertinent questions.
Predictably, the speech was met with howls of protest, but also with protests of a more _____ nature.
Predictably, the speech was met with howls of protest, but also with protests of a more _____ nature.
Newspaper reports describing the protests described the protesters as "sullen and truculent".

# dross

If I wanted to read dross, I'd fanfiction.
Novels have not been spared in this age of intellectual enlightenment, with some of the mores of urban fantasy and paranormal romance aiming for a lowest common denominator appeal with the dross of the literary world.
The books were long, poorly written, and contained mostly dross.
Many editors felt that most of the daily information flow was dross.
The second-rate art was crowded out by dross.
However, even with computers, the market is flooded with dross; a team of researchers sifts through the incoming data to clarify which stories are important and not obvious.
The world financial system finds itself in the position of the sorcerer's apprentice, with even former masters of the universe like Goldman Sachs seeing their reputations and market value plummet amid a sea of dross.
The market has been flooded with sub-par content, as anyone can trivially create and distribute dross.
The market for fiction is a vast slush pile of dross, with a few shiny gems hidden within.
You must be very careful to separate the dross from the gold.
This question requires you to put 'dross' in the following sentence:.
You try to remember your college Greek, but can recall only one word: dross.
The headlines had promised the sizzle, but it was only the dross of yet more financial news.
As the materialistic worldview gained prominence, negative stereotypes of the "heathen" Indian emerged, and the indigenous religions were disregarded as the dross of a less-enlightened era.

# phalanx

Military thinkers believe that the phalanx is the key to victory on the battlefield.
A phalanx is a rectangular mass military formation comprised of armed soldiers.
In the ensuing confusion, the peasants forgot their traditional fear of the Empire and training in the phalanx tactics gave them the confidence to attack.
The phalanx strategy was used in ancient times.
The first row in an phalanx is called a.
They were grimly prepared to march into the mouth of hell, shoulder to shoulder, as a tight phalanx.
The march past was led by a phalanx of flag bearers.
One difference is that a military formation, the phalanx, implies there are other types of formations.
The other kind of military formation, the phalanx, dates from ancient Greece.
The words were chosen to break the phalanx of terror that is as much a barrier to peace as is the wall between Israel and the West Bank.
They were armed with a panoply of traditional weapons, from bows and arrows to spears and swords to hammers and battle axes; the phalanx was equipped with shield-covered spears that could rebuff most cavalry charges.
Can you please put in 'phalanx' when you write your answer?.
Indeed, our project has already created an 800-strong phalanx of new workers!.
There are various specialized roles in the phalanx, including a Position of Achilles.
The first columns had moved out of the poleis, and a tightening phalanx of hoplites marched around the Theban contingent.
In battle, the soldiers formed a fearsome phalanx.
As the arrows clout shields and thud into flesh, you see the phalanx divide as your men drop out of line to either side.
The conscripts' assault was repulsed by a phalanx advancing behind a cloud of arrows.
The humans were a phalanx of suits.

# monolithic

The Party is monolithic.
Through a combination of censorship, violence, and centralized control of cultural production, the Party has created a monolithic bloc with a uniform worldview.
Some predict that the new reality show will fall victim to the hunger for novelty, or that competition from other types of programming will lead to a decline in viewership, resulting in the erosion of its monolithic media franchise.
Most governments in the region are repressive, monolithic entities.
The government bureaucrats have little power to effect change, and the economy is dominated by a monolithic megaconglomerate.
Some see the pursuit of purity as the defining quality of their civilization, with monolithic assumptions of thought and behavior.
The Five-Year Plan was unequivocally successful, as the monolithic Soviet economy continued to industrialize at a breakneck pace.
Admittedly some governments are nicer than others, but the idea that they're encouraging debate and letting the people choose their own way seems monolithic.
Recent Examples of 'monolithic' in Texts:.
Some see technology as a solution, but others see this as a manifestation of the problem, creating ever more efficient solutions to everything, making solutions to problems appear monolithic and entrenched.
Many of these technologies are mature and 1984 was a monolithic year for the company.
The stakes are so high because this ideology has begun to take on a distinctly monolithic character, as several states have banned dissident opinions.
The television stations, all state-run, offered a monolithic view of the world: it was a dangerous place, and only the Party could protect you.
CotBG is a nearly monolithic organization.
There is an impression that the industry, in its current state, is monolithic and not for the faint of heart.
All of these improvements have helped to make government more responsive and less monolithic than it was in the past.

# lugubrious

The lugubrious songs and skits continued all afternoon without letup.
The king's speech was elegant but his tone was lugubrious.
Unable to find any better role models, the budding novelist cast himself as the hero of a story in which he trails after a lugubrious serial killer.
The lugubrious orations accompanying the endless stream of statues, portraits, and busts that fill the halls does little to improve the outlook.
In addition, writing in a lugubrious tone, Comenius described his clash with a schoolmaster who took exception to his theological views.
An opening performance of solemn, lugubrious songs told the tragic story of the nation's founding.
The lugubrious music that opens both pieces is slightly varied upon repetition.
He claimed that her lugubrious singing made his dog cry.
Unable to find meaning in life, the old man became increasingly religious and lugubrious.
The lugubrious dirge was written to commemorate the hundreds of employees who died building the first Death Star.
In a lugubrious voice he read from the Book of Job.
He describes his experience as lugubrious.
The lugubrious dirge of funeral music inspired the members of the group to sing in a similar style.
At least it's free from the littering of lugubrious sentimental paintings.
Hoping to catch the eye of Uncle Sam, they have taken to heart the lugubrious "Land of the Free" rhetoric that constantly emanates from Washington.
It felt like the end of the world, a time of endings without beginnings, lugubrious and dark.
The lugubrious oration that follows the prize ceremony is mercifully brief.
After a lugubrious performance, the funeral finally began.
The lugubrious delivery of the creepy guy in thick glasses really set the tone for the event.
To what do you ascribe the lugubrious nature of his speech?.
In addition to bemoaning the fall of the Empire, he offered a lugubrious lament for its internal collapse.
Supply and demand are, perhaps, the most famous example of what economists call a pair of _____ theories.
Don't look at me to supply the correct definition for lugubrious; if you can't figure out what it means, you're beyond help.
The lugubrious music, the lifeless performances, and the endless repetition create the impression less of a celebration than a propaganda exercise.
The lugubrious oration on the history of the Party continued.
He was a morose and lugubrious young man who entertained his bored colleagues with impressive and noisy imitations of exotic birds.

# lambaste

The last of these groups is the easiest to lambastethe government-controlled media.
The essay lambasted modern education, which it claims creates students with no knowledge but a wealth of skepticism.
The essay lambasted modern education, which it claims creates students with no knowledge but a wealth of skepticism.
The president was lambasted in the press for his empty promises.
The movies will lambaste the banks and investment houses for their roles in the crisis.
She used her unpopularity in Britain to lambaste the upper classes.
Many of the most scathing reviews lambasted the overly familiar story.
The second quarter included such high-praised offerings as "The Masterchef Exhibition," in which cooks competed for the chance to have their food lambasted by a famous British chef.
Some people will lambaste you for your insolence: tell them that the emperor is naked.
The company lambasted the SEC for a July report on initial coin offerings.
The quarterly earnings are released, and the stock is lambasted by analysts.
He lambasted the local government for taxing the peasants into oblivion.
He lambasted the lazy, apathetic, and stupid people who opposed him.
For example, I can lambaste the government for banning the latest smoking cessation drug.
The graduation ceremony lasted three hours, during which the dean lambasted the students for the university's declining prestige.
For example, the following is a definition of the word 'lambaste'.
The article lambastes a number of popular misconceptions about the intent of the law.
"Conservatives lambaste Hollande for his failed economic policies.
Now that the skit was over, the emcee took the stage once again to lambaste Western values.
For example, in the German film dipussi, a mother lambastes(lambastes?) her son for his failure to do the dishes.

# lachrymose

In everyday usage, "lachrymose" means "given to crying".
The target of your jokes is a lachrymose drunk who, when he is not crying, is laughing.
The target of your jokes is a lachrymose drunk who, when he is not crying, is laughing.
They write novels with overwrought, lachrymose prose and overly tragic plots.
During the second act, I had to leave to cry in the bathroom after an excessively lachrymose scene.
The design called for a lachrymose statue in the middle of the reflecting pool.
The most popular show was a lachrymose melodrama with a tragic ending.
Use 'lachrymose' in the following sentence:.
W: lachrymose (adj) Makes you cry; often used to describe overly sentimental writing or drama; 'grief-induced tears'.
As the training session progressed, the music became more lachrymose.
He is in danger of being excessively emotional and prone to lachrymose outbursts.
He was finding it increasingly difficult to hand out lachrymose summaries of the latest fallen heroes.
He turned to look at her, fighting the urge to be angry at her lachrymose turn.
The whole affair was so lachrymose that it was hard to tell if we were there to induct young men into the armed forces or give a performance of 'Brian's Song'.
The nation has grown increasingly lachrymose about its place in the world.
Uno's eyes were red and puffy, and his face was very sad and lachrymose.
Meanwhile, back at the ranch, Mark is becoming more and more lachrymose when he talks about the family's woes.
Novel ideas are lachrymose as investors come to terms with another year of low returns.

# pique

The new education policies are an attempt to pique students' interest in science.
If anything can pique the interest of future generations in the daily lives of people today, it could be social media.
The thought that my letter may have caused a great change in the American government is enough to pique any interest.
The new law was a response to several especially vicious murders, committed by career criminals who had long escaped justice through pique and cunning.
She writes a few posts which she strategically places on various forums and comment sections, attempting to pique the interest of potential recruits.
She was friendly, but no more than that, and you felt a twinge of pique because she seemed to like Frank a lot more than you.
The next day, I read that same rebuttal in the newspaper and felt pique.
Unfortunately, I can find no words that are nine letters long and end in 'pique'.
Other examples of words that have several meanings are "pique", which can mean either a type of shirt or to irritate, and "crepe", which can mean a dessert or sadness.
These daily updates were designed to help employees keep pique of the markets.

# ebullient

The nation is ebullient with the excitement of the Games.
The students lambasted the school for focusing on standardized testing, and were generally ebullient.
In the late 20th century, a new wave of European intellectuals grew ebullient about the possibilities of technology.
Unfortunately, stock valuations are currently sky-high, and investors are increasingly ebullient about the long-term profitability of many companies.
"The mood on campus is ebullient," he said.
Click here to see the hidden message (It might contain spoilers) Their ebullient energy was directed towards making the Alliance of Free States a reality.
The presence of foreign tourists and high-ranking government officials feed the ever-present desire for everything to be ebullient and upbeat.
His new assistant is an ebullient young journalist.

# canard

This 'productivity problem' is just a canard by those who want to take away the goods that workers have won over the last century.
The canard that consumption of carrots improves the eyesight is a hoax.
It is a great canard that the human mind, in its natural state, is inclined to liberty.

# gerontocracy

As the older generation dies off, its accumulated wealth is passed on to the younger generation, and the power of the gerontocracy consequently fades.
The nation's gerontocracy has resisted all such innovations.

# synoptic


# virulent


# pundit


# winnow


# grovel

If you are looking to show your boss, or teacher, that you know the meaning of the words in a sample sentence and how it is used in the given sentence, put 'grovel' in the following sentence:.
In traditional outsourcing arrangements, the global company would often bully their suppliers; while successful entrepreneurs tend to be dominant personalities who are good at telling people "no", in these partnerships the Indian CEO's tend to grovel to the.
In what year was the "Dear Leader" letter published in DPRK Today, a letter calling for North Korea's citizens to grovel before Kim Jong Un?.
Your time to shine! Pick whatever type of prose you'd like: technical, witty, thoughtful, or groveling for mercy.
You are going to grovel for the chance to lick the dust from my sandals.
After a day of workshops including such riveting topics as "How to grovel before your client," you have to listen to a factory manager give a presentation on safety procedures.
After being on the wrong end of several of the CEO's tirades, John learned to grovel a lot better.
The response was a flamboyant display of bowing, scraping and groveling.
The company is making some effort to be more green, but it would not grovel before environmentalists.
The notion that elite university professors could grovel before Moscow and expect indulgence is ahistorical.
This e-mail requires you to grovel before your boss for your error.
Some of our rivals seem to believe that we will just roll over and beg if they slander us, but they do not know the true spirit of the Hive - we will not grovel .
The company was criticized for groveling to the government and excusing its public be.
"High-level" employees will grovel before clients and kiss their asses in order to maintain said clients, but the moment a better prospect comes along, said employee will gladly throw your relationship down the drain in favor of the other guy.
Despite the changes in the wind, some conservative pundits continue to ________ .
When the celestial chorus finishes, you are ready to grovel for mercy.
Grovel is a back-formation of the now unused older word groveling and means to behave in an abject or degrading way.
When the government cuts your funding, you'll be able to grovel at our feet for a job.
Nobody wants to see the leader or their country grovel.
The goal is to test the limits of how fast I can make you grovel.
Some critics have been singing the company's praises; others seem to be groveling for a bailout.
Zhou's ersatz apology to the West wasn't enough for the Manchu Court, which forced him to grovel.
High-ranking political officials and business leaders would grovel for scraps from the dictator's table.
The country's leaders must grovel before the world community.
One common attitude is to grovel before the government as the only employer, and laud it as a benefactor.
For over half a year he had to grovel for forgiveness, all the while being beaten and starved until he wished for death.

# umbrage

He took umbrage at her suggestion that he was not trustworthy.
They can take umbrage at the slightest criticism, perceived or real.
They can take umbrage at the slightest criticism, perceived or real.
Those who oppose your plan are taking umbrage at the implication they're less dedicated to the company than you.
The senator took umbrage at her remarks and demanded a public apology.
The public's umbrage was clear: ticket sales for the tour were anemic at best.
You must take umbrage at that remark!.
At your suggestion, I took umbrage at his going before the Board without including me.
I don't think that I take umbrage at your accusation; rather, I am impressed by the fact you noticed that I have been working to make changes.
The agency takes _________ at criticism, especially when it's true.
Does Jane's concern stem from a sense that John has taken umbrage at her criticisms?.
Some people take umbrage at the suggestion that they are not a free-thinking, liberty-loving patriot.
Some have taken umbrage to this remark on social media.
After the incident, many in the department took umbrage at your failure to follow procedure.
He was offended by what he perceived to be her umbrage.
The organization is sensitive about its reputation and takes umbrage at the suggestion that it is involved in illegal activities.
Natalie took __________ at this hostile attitude.
Those who take umbrage at this characterization will be labeled as standing in the way of freedom by those who are pushing the idea.
Those who take umbrage at this characterization will be labeled as standing in the way of freedom by those who are pushing the idea.
Although the firm's management team is no longer predominantly male, several of the older female employees have taken umbrage at this perceived intrusion into their traditional domains.
He took umbrage at the suggestion that he was trying to hide anything.
The JPL staffers took umbrage at the talk of replacing them with cheaper labor.
The professor took umbrage at the accusation that he didn't require students to read the material.
Many board members took umbrage at the CEO's decision to spend company money on a lavish office renovation.
"This is taking __________.
The tribal elders took umbrage at such an affront to their honor, and so the young men went off to war.
Your refusal to contribute to the company softball team's kickball tournament has taken __________.
While many of the company's decisions were clearly unfavorable, some took umbrage at his manner.
An employer might take umbrage at the contents of a blog and fire the employee.
The courtier bristled at the criticism implicit in the emperor's umbrage.
The trademark troll took umbrage at his use of the word 'troll' in his email to us.
The website is taking ___________ at the claim that its translation engine is only 60% accurate.

# knell


# idyll

In many ways, the ______________ of village life has been destroyed by the intrusion of technology.
After the long, slow decline of the preceding decades, many in the Empire hailed his return as the beginning of an idyllic new era.
In answer to your question, yes, we all lived in a quaint idyllic village before the darkness descended.
To read the whole story, it seemed like an idyllic lifestyle.
The morning commute is an idyll of our technological future.
Of _________, in addition to the traditional trappings of farming (plows, manure), features a guy wearing little more than some leaves and a smile.
He imagined an idyll where humans lived in harmony with nature.
The report has no idyllic ending; quite the opposite.
I am proposing an idyll, a respite from our galloping journey.
Thoughts of the past; a simpler time, an idyll.
It's about an idyllic small town that, while anchored by recognizable human concerns, was ultimately concerned with aesthetics first.
The glowing review failed to convey the author's feel for the idyll's beginnings, the bulk of the novel.
They have an idyllic family life with no financial worries.
The pamphlet ends with a heart-warming idyll of traditional family life.
The idyll of life in the countryside was shattered by the sound of cannon fire.
The ____ city of Yerevan lends its name to the country.
The city's brief respite from the war is an idyll that has faded with the coming of the sobering postwar reality.
Despite the idyllic setting, I found it hard to enjoy myself.
The idyll was short-lived; academics soon returned to bickering.
Fenwick stared at the idyllic country scene.
The _____ life didn't appeal to him; he found it too boring.
Vanguard's third launch attempt ended in disaster when the rocket erupted into an idyllic pastoral scene as the launch sequence started.
The idyllic life of the Iranian shepherd boy is legendary.
The bucolic village is an idyll of Austrian life.
The problem is that real life simply does not resemble an idyll.
The idyll of village life is over.
After a long week of grueling activities, the boys were looking forward to the idyll of the camp.
At no point does _______ admit that they can be wrong.
Exhausted from the long week, I fell asleep to the soothing sounds of the idyllic country.
The idyll was destroyed by the scourge of the West - industrialization.
If only things at home were as peaceful as they are in this idyllic photo.

# fracas

Stockbrokers fracas, also known as a 'stoush' in australia, is somewhat common among the many brokers in day to day business.
Two football stars were arrested yesterday after a nightclub fracas in which their wives attacked each other with lethal fingernail files.
It was settled by a gladiator duel in ancient times, but such matters are usually settled by a court nowadays: the fracas between politicians requi.
His fracas with a colleague resulted in his reassignment.
The director stormed off the set in a huff after a heated ________ with the leading lady.
After the fracas, the court determined that the will was invalid.
Four people were injured in a fracas yesterday at Brookings City Hall, police reported.
In other words, the fight was a regrettable _________ between two of the greatest minds in modern economics.
In other words, the fight was a regrettable _________ between two of the greatest minds in modern economics.
The 'fracas' occurred in 1856 when Stephen A.
The firm is experiencing a grave fiscal fracas.
Somewhat surprisingly, there was no fracas following the victory.
After the fracas, the arbitrators found that the worker was justified in his grievances.
Churchill's memoirs barely mention his youthful fracas with a legendary Indian boxer.
The culprit seems to have been a personal dispute that got out of control, rather than some larger political dispute, as often happens in what the media has dubbed a "fracas".
After the _________ between the singer and his ex-girlfriend, nobody could continue the show.
After the fracas, he was fired.
After the fracas, he was fired.
The result is a set of policies that is somewhere between laissez-faire and an unholy fracas of catering to special interests.
The Prime Minister's surprise resignation was the result of a late-night fracas at a gentlemen's club.
He gave the reporter an abbreviated version of the fracas that had led to the gunshot.
The recent financial ________ was allegedly over a missing office stapler.

# lacuna

The tax collectors discover a lacuna that gives them justification to raise taxes.
He has learned to smooth over the lacuna in his knowledge.
There is a lacuna in the understanding of this phenomenon.
Vast amounts of information are simply lost in ________.
The lacuna in this source forces us to conclude that the writer suddenly decided to just stop writing.
Ever since the lacuna was discovered in 1801 by ichthyologists while exploring the Amazon, the region has been of interest to open-space adventurers.
"It's a lacuna in her essays, for which I suppose we can be glad.
The most obvious lacuna in the argument concerns .
Until the mid-1400s most people lived at a pretty low technological level, with no clocks, candles, or chimneys; most people supplied their own ________________.
He is obviously a man of intellecutal distinction yet his writing is filled with boring minutiae and lacunas.
He stared at the blackness, his mind wandering the lacuna where his past was supposed to be.
He argues that in the _________________ of effective repressive apparatus controlled by the state, it is naive to believe that the working classes could have ever achieved their aims through purely political means.
We may be so appalled at the brutality of the crime that we fail to see the even more horrifying lacuna in the legal system.
The trade gap is one of the most critical ________ in U.
Although it has a booming economy, China suffers from many ________ in its legal system.
The book is an exploration of the many lacunas in English vocabulary.
Much has been made by the media about the rising cost of education, but according to Professor Reynolds, there is a lacuna in the public discourse; namely, the role of demographic factors in education.
As he spoke, I could not help notice what a lacuna his death would represent in America's culture.
The _______ of the ancient writings make them less valuable as evidence.
The only solution is to pay workers more, which would a lacuna in productivity.
Even for those with ills, the waiting time can be a week or more, a health care lacuna that has sparked outrage.
Gas companies have been working tirelessly to fill the lacuna left by the shortfall in domestic oil supply.
As a result, society has a chance to fill the historical lacuna represented by the lost Primoid civilization.
The report _____ the incident, although it occurred more than two years previously.
The libraries had been reduced almost to lacunae of obscurity.
The opening ceremony was surprisingly long, boring, and had a lot of lacunae.
The annual report was a lackluster document--30 pages of tiresome prose, filling in bureaucratic lacunas with industry jargon and fuzzy-wuzzy buzzwords.

# coterie

This is an example of a coterie that meets monthly.
The deal was engineered by a lobbying firm for the coterie of hedge funds that own LBO debt.
The group of television critics were generally a cynical few, but they were so overwhelmed by the power of your arguments they have been won over and are now part of your _______.
The group of television critics were generally a cynical few, but they were so overwhelmed by the power of your arguments they have been won over and are now part of your _______.
Police were reported to have detained several people from the general's coterie.
The president is still popular among his coterie of supporters.
Those who have not abandoned you would form a supportive ____________.
His coterie of aging hippies and homeless people is seen as a liability by most.
The fund held up against the market turmoil, as it was managed by a trusted _______ of financial wizards.
These optimistic financial prophets form a kind of intellectual "in-crowd", a coterie of like-minded thinkers who rarely disagree with one another.
The CIO was formed by a coterie of workers who disliked the lack of say they had in company decisions.
The lawmaker depended on a coterie of economic advisors.
Arguably, the most famous member of this coterie was Ayn Rand.
Verbosity leads to obscurity, and obscurity leads to a coterie audience.
A group of people seeking personal or spiritual improvement might be called a ________ .
The coterie of experts were gathered around the table.
The lab's research has created a coterie of lawyers, businessmen, and government of.
It seemed likely that she was part of some coterie, or inner circle opinion makers.
These are the measures that are necessary to save the coterie .
The coterie of young artists would meet in fashionable cafs.
The king's closest advisors constitute a shadowy coterie known as "the Lords".

# impugn

The defense tried to impugn the reputation of the plaintiff's witnesses.
When the university president visited the campus, students protested his planned address by impugning his professional credentials.
'It's at times like these we must remember that _______ is the cornerstone of our way of life.
One economist, whose name was impugned in the report, called the whole process a 'witch hunt'.
The theroy barely stands up to impugn.
The defense lawyer tried toimpugn the veracity of the witness, but the witness stayed firm.
He impugned my honesty when I suggested he did not win the competition fairly.
The defendant's lawyer tried to impugn the prosecution's motives.
Impugn (as in, "The defense attorney sought to impugn the credibility of the prosecution's key witness.
Apathy is in as social trust impugns.
The dean likes to impugn your integrity by saying you never graduated from college.
The fighter's impugned his honor.
The government has not yet impugned our reports.
The defense tried to impugn the honesty of the main witness.
Labor unions are often hostile to globalization, believing that it impugns their ability to extract concessions from employers.
'What makes you think that saving the world is a good idea?' she asked, impugning your motives.
It is not helpful to impugn the motives of your detractors.
Although I would not impugn the intentions of the honorees, I believe the award itself is suspect.
The senator responded to the charges by impugning the motives of his accusers.
The firm has faced a flurry of negative press, some of which impugns its motives.
Marrying the daughter of a prominent family, _______ did his best to become an accepted member of the inner circles of politics.
I don't think he'll survive the war--he has a habit of drinking without chewing his food, and that can be fatal, especially when one is in an impugned position.
Other economists have impugned these results.
The celebrity's aloofness did not stop him from ____________ her motives.
Au courant: ___________.
While I am confident of these changes, I hope you will impugn them if you find any imperfections.
The opposing candidate tried to impugn your motives, but the judge dismissed his testimony as bias.
'Civic responsibility' has been used to impugn the patriotism of anyone.
It would be impugning the judgment of the other twenty one CEOs to say that they are making a mistake.
The government does not impugn your motive.
We will not impugn his motives.
The funding IS under great scrutiny, as the government has seen fit to impugn it.

# upbraid

The government's been upbraiding the media for not toeing the party line.
The peasants broke their backs to pay the exorbitant tax demanded of them, only to be upbraided for being traitors if they couldn't pay.
The lead critic upbraid the actors for poor diction.
The crowds were undaunted, however, and soldiers did not upbraid them for lack of discipline.
We cannot upbraid them for making the same mistakes that others made before them.
In theory, the government doesn't upbraid its citizens for succumbing to hopelessness.
The news of the depletion of the last aquifer was kept from most of the public; those in government service who knew were upbraided for failing to announce it years ago.
A diner might upbraid the cook for forgetting the onions on his cheeseburger.
Most of what you do is complaining and upbraiding us for being insufficiently enthusiastic about the war effort.
The cook was upbraided by his boss for spoiling the oysters.
The recent financial crisis was a debacle for economic theory, and many critics felt that the economics profession should be upbraided for its failure to anticipate the crisis.
The long-suffering taxpayers, at last awake to the robbery of the treasury, upbraid him.
The bank should feel free to upbraid its customers who break the rules.
The reason why I advise against weekend trading is that it would upbraid the seriousness of both markets.
Ultimately, the blame lies with the upbraiders as much as the upbraided.
In financial scandals, officials often upbraid the stock analysts for not asking enough questions.
The peasants might well have upbraid him for the wretched life they had to endure.
The brutal disciplinarian Father MacGuire was known to upbraid children for the slightest infractions.
Later, the Emperor upbraided his advisors for failing to foresee this tragedy.
The men gazed at you sullenly, but did not upbraid you.
The peasant fell to his knees and upbraided her for her lack of compassion.
The best efforts of the government to upbraid the population for their apathy seemed to had little effect.
Some friends upbraid me for squandering my talents on a mere stock picker.
Use 'upbraid' in the following sentence:.
From the safety of the west, we ______________ those brave people to stand against tyranny, even as we export it to them in the form of exploitative neoliberal corporate policy.
His co-workers would upbraid him for his wardrobe.
The men were upbraided for their tardiness.
The men were upbraided for their tardiness.
Traders upbraid one another for not sharing information.
When I failed to meet yesterday's production quotas, my supervisor upbraided me severely.
The man upbraided me for my incorrect use of the term.
Three rows ahead of you, the dean's jaw muscles work as he ______________ one unhappy undergraduate.
The man upbraided the employee for their mistake.
The crowd gathers around the prone figure of a hunter who has been upbraid by his colleagues for his careless shooting.
After the unfortunate incident, his mother always upbraided him.
In the course of this they upbraid the whole American people for their lack of psychological preparedness.
In the course of this they upbraid the whole American people for their lack of psychological preparedness.
She never upbraided us for our deceit; she only asked.
The abuse your friend upbraided you for was just a practical joke between friends.

# cosset

If you cosset a plant by keeping it in the dark and feeding it just enough to keep it alive, it will never grow.
If you don't mind, I'd like to be cosseted a bit.
The company is not here to cosset you.
After decades of defending freedom, you also learn to cosset yourself when neces.
The food that surrounded us was of the type designed to cosset the rich.
If you had to guess, which of these suitors is _____Penelope, and which is _____Telemachus.
The EEC has over the years cosseted many inefficient industries.
The women's team has been cosseted and petted, and generally treated as favorites.
These children, these cosseted royalty of the royal houses, were now all dead.
These theories do not take into account the tendency for people to cosset themselves in "gated communities".
Critics say the agency has cosseted the industry and not done enough to ensure financing for independent films that do not meet the strict criteria of a Hollywood blockbuster.
He lived a life of luxury, surrounded by servants who cosseted him.
Having been raised by his mother and having never been bullied, he believes the world is an inherently just place, and such a sweet nature makes him a perfect target for maternal types who wish to cosset and spoil him.
These men and women are cosseted from the brutal realities of war.
These men and women are cosseted from the brutal realities of war.
A fiery, independent-minded woman, she did not allow herself to be cosseted.
After the death of her parents, Gerald was eager to cosset his younger sibling.
In the past, the national press often cosseted him for his role in both Gulf wars.
The affluent have increasingly used their wealth to cosset themselves from the problems faced by the less fortunate.
Traditionally, though, [???] :NordicA??? cultures emphasize individual responsibility, so the culture clashes are frequent and self-indulgent people cosseted.
If you don't make time to immerse yourself in the market, you're cossetting yourself in a cocoon of ignorance.
She is always petting and cosseting him, encouraging him to be a.
The United States will not cosset Iran as it rebuilds.
There was a major flaw in the plan to _____ (verb) _____ the children by making it illegal for them to mature.
The game world gives us a place where we can cosset our insecurities and avoid the challenge of real life.
"Whatever she wants," he cossets her, "is what I want.
In this context, 'cosset' means 'pamper'.

# prone

The company was always prone to these sort of unscrupulous tactics.
In exchange for this support the government becomes increasingly prone to blocks on media criticism.
The group was prone to infighting and disagreements about ideology.
Motivational speakers are prone to offer such anecdotes to make their points.
As a side effect, factory owners found they had to pay their staff more, as they were always so ' prone to fall ill.
Most critics agree the plan is _____ to meet that goal.
People are increasingly prone to use social media, as they find it an effective tool to change the world.
Some people are prone to depression; others less so.
The price is $29, and as usual your clients are prone to whingeing.
For those who are prone to car sickness, it is advised that you take your Dramamine or whatever first.
The computer, rather than making things easier, is prone to frequently break down.
The country's near-endless resources make it prone toresource shortages.
Engineers tend to be more prone to logical thinking.
Even the most seemingly upstanding citizens may be prone to devious behavior under the right circumstances.
Too much stock in a company can make a manager _______ to entrenched positions.
He was prone to anxiety attacks.
Man has always been _________ to the temptation of sho.
He was prone to drinking excessively whenever he could afford to do so.
Many economists are prone to take a relativist view of culture, although there is a strong movement in the discipline to resist this tendency.
These daily updates were designed to help employees keep prone of the markets.
These societies are prone to periodic collapse .
Many of my friends are prone to reckless behavior.
Traders are prone to leave their computers on all the time.
The country is prone to natural disasters.
The population is prone to panic in the event of a crisis.
The credit system is prone to these kinds of cycles.
But if that's the case, why am I so prone to distraction?.
The problem is that philosophical propositions, such as 'truth is beauty', are not matters of empirical fact--they do not concern what is prone to occur or not occur in nature.
The new patch has made some customers prone to hallucinations.
The film is prone to preach to the converted.
The country was prone to assassination, particularly of reform-minded C.
The current business environment is prone to over-regulation.

# larceny

The man was found guilty of kidnapping, grievous bodily harm, and grand larceny.
Other types of crime, such as larceny, have increased lately.
Other types of crime, such as larceny, have increased lately.
Half of the company was collared for some form of larceny in last month's police sweep.
Some observers see embezzlement as (larceny).
The larceny charges were dropped when you repaid the store.
He described his crime as a simple act of larceny.
Fiscal policy should not be used as a tool to reverse larceny.
They were quickly apprehended for the larceny of the horse.
The reason that the banking industry has grown so quickly is due to ________.
The larceny of the statue was one of the worst outrages of an angry mob.
Find "larceny" in the following passage:.
These programs take advantage of 'free market' political rhetoric while enjoying larceny tax benefits.
It was decided that Price's offence _______ company property was great enough to warrant dismissal.
It was decided that Price's offence _______ company property was great enough to warrant dismissal.
'Embezzle', 'theft', 'burglary', and 'larceny' are a.
He was arrested for larceny.
He was caught red handed in the act of ___.
The bank robbery is charged as armed larceny.
The larceny of the watch was the only thing taken.
The pair were charged with larceny of defense secrets.
Widespread larceny was predictably common.
The partners were shocked by his larceny.
He was suspected of __________the funds he was sent to pick up.
The senator was accused of larceny after it came to light that he had been accepting bribes for years.
The Party maintains its hold on power by keeping the population in a state of ignorance and feeding on their ___________.
There is nothing that quite compares to the exhilarating feeling one gets from larceny.
The crime was petty _______________ , but the punishment was life imprisonment.
The law defines larceny as theft of anything with a value above $________.
Elaborate hierarchies and job descriptions create a feeling of duty to the company, but they also allow the company to indulge in double standards and larceny.
Babies are incapable of larceny.
Some say that this is because the _____ of pheasants, ducks, and other hunted birds has increased.
Some say that this is because the _____ of pheasants, ducks, and other hunted birds has increased.
Some say that increased trading caused the increase in larceny in the area.
The professor's larceny.
The _____________ of copyrighted material for profit is illegal under U.
As a criminal defense attorney, you are often faced with the distinction between a misunderstanding and the ___________ of law.

# hermetic


# misanthropy

For some people, a withering of religious faith goes hand in hand with _______.
The firm practices misanthropy in its hiri.
Many economists see the dark view of humanity as a blip, caused by the extreme pessimism and ___________ of the recent financial crisis.
The _________ of the high-ranking official's remarks shocked the audience.
The misanthropy of his later years belied his true passion for humanity.
Man is a social animal, and misanthropy is unknown to him unless its grounds have been prepared by just such officials as you.
His best friend's misanthropy was Exhibit A.
The speaker's cynicism is betrayed by her misanthropy.
The family has experienced a groundswell of public support despite efforts by government officials to instill a spirit of misanthropy.
The reason there are so many burglaries is society's increasing misanthropy.
The cynic would say humanity is incapable of curing disease, but the optimist believes we will eventually find a cure for this misanthropy.
Some economists worry that the obsession with maximizing shareholder returns is a form of corporate misanthropy.
The movie contains misanthropy and zombies.
Some see the "new world order" as a step forward in human progress, while others view it with misanthropy.
At least half of the humor involves mocking the failings of humanity, such as misanthropy , vanity, greed , and hypocrisy.
The speaker's misanthropy became most evident during a discussion question.
Furthermore, I doubt if any amount of education can cure mankind's misanthropy.
In the ____________ corner, representing the Conceptualists, we have Word!.
The main argument against the regulation of hate speech is that it reflects a fundamental mistrust of, and even misanthropy towards, members of certain groups.
He was well-known for his misanthropy.
The bitter tone that runs throughout the writing suggests the author's misanthropy.
The new generation of students is sometimes accused of misanthropy.
The results aren't surprising, coming from a company with your well-known misanthropy.

# incubus

A government-funded incubus drains the life out of the economy.
He describes an incubus, a demon who has sexual relations with women, and a succubus, a similar demon who has relations with men.
In their dreams, Raskolnikov and Dunya fall in love, _________.
The current account deficit seems rather like an incubus, assuming horrific dimensions in the eyes of investors.
At the moment, Native voters are likely to be an incubus on the Democratic Party.
The company's profit margins are being squeezed by an incubus of rising wages and falling productivity.
We don't know who the father is, buthe has an incubus inside of him.
The ongoing crisis is seen as an incubus, in that it prevents ne.
The mining towns that dotted the region a century ago have become incubuses: places that survive only by sucking the life out of the c.
The economy is a difficult beast to tame if it acts as an incubus on profitability.
An incubus is a demon who nestle.
Tucker stood up like an incubus and said, "You don't have to listen to me, but if you take one of those tests, you'll be helping out research.
The problem is that this heady mixture of prosperity and authority is an incubus.
After graduation, the _________ of stude.
The hypothetical dilemma faced by the tycoon might aptly be called the incubus of capitalism.
Some businesses have been crippled by a mixture of red tape, bureaucracy, and an incubus of taxation.
She dreams that her husband is an incubus, sucking the life out of her.

# vitriol

Financial pundits have unleashed vitriol against certain industries.
The vitriol in Umair's missives took even his colleagues by surprise.
The vitriol in Umair's missives took even his colleagues by surprise.
This was a time of vitriolic statements by political.
Bertrand Russel has been described as a "catty gay misogynist!" put in the words of an especially vitriolic biographer.
Citizens of the empire are a little more cosmopolitan and a lot less bigoted and vitriolic than you.
The professor's vitriol is directed at those in his field who are the closest to reaching the North Pole.
You take the vitriol of his statements as a good s.
Read More We were able to forgive the lackluster meals thanks to the vitriol of our waiter.
The vitriol is especially interesting.
The vitriol in your post is out of place.
The vitriol spewed forth in these online forums is at times both hateful and horrific.
The author's vitriol agai.
The vitriol in your letter is disappointing.
They are vitriolic.
The think-tank world can be a vitriolic place.
If Sanger had been more willing to compromise, she might not have faced such vitriol.
The vitriol in the film's portrayal of bankers calls to mind the sort of antisemitism that was commonplace in the 1930s.
The vitriol in the letter surprised me, as I was unaware that I'd offended the author.
The vitriol in the letter took me aback.
The vitriol in your post seems out of place.
The bureaucrat spat his vitriol in an exhausted rant about lazy co-workers.
The vitriol in his voice startled her.
The vitriol in your post is out of all proportion to the supposed offense.
In his speeches, Singleton's vitriol is barely contained.
The vitriol in these letters is surprising.
The professor's vitriol was so caustic that she was reported to campus security.
The vitriol in your letter is out of line.

# bombastic

The speech was a confusing medley of patriotic clichs and bombastic rhetoric.
Most of its members were bombastic straight men, who found themselves bereft of material after t.
The instructor is a bombastic fool who believes that his incomprehensib.
Some critics see the productivity problem as ___________.
Some critics see the productivity problem as ___________.
The report was written in the trademark Jarden Corporation bombastic prose that was typical of Mark himself.
The dean's speech was riddled with long words, and it was full of bombastic prose that sounded impressive but meant virtually nothing.
Somewhat bombastic, Vera nevertheless had a good ear and was able to pinpoint several untruths in the minister's speech.
"The writer's style is somewhat bombastic.
Despite his bombastic public persona, he was shy.
Eventually, even the most bombastic of them would break.
Eventually, even the most bombastic of them would break.
Eventually, even the most bombastic of them would break.
Eventually, even the most bombastic of them would break.
The artist's______.
The artist's______.
In his bombastic way, Marti.
In his bombastic way, War Hero Fer played down the importance of his own military career while simultaneously lionizing his comrade in arms,.
In his bombastic way, War Hero Fer played down the importance of his own military career while simultaneously lionizing his comrade in arms,.
If the speech had been given by someone without his credentials, it might be described as ___________.
Other people are less generous; Jones's bombastic Better America Party will probably be a flash in the pan.
A bombastic speech can motivate the troops and terrify the enemy.
The tone of his writing is aggressively _________.
The report was written in the typical bureaucratic prose, replete with meaningless jargon and bombastic phraseology.
Take the adverb form of the word 'bombastic' and put it in the following sentence:.
The mayor gave a bombastic speech in which he claimed that the city had never been in better shape.
A bombastic speech by the Emperor is met with stony silence from the crowd.
One of his more bombastic portraits hangs in the palace museum.
A bombastic speech that makes grand, unsubstantiated claims.
The literary style is just so pompous and bombastic.
Our bombastic vice president spearheaded the initiative.
Your supervisor's writing is often bombastic and grandiose.
The vocabulary word bombastic pertains to grandiose language that is so excessively pompous that it borders on the humorous.
Does this word mean "full of bombastic language", or does it mean "having a bomb as a part of it"?.
"Despite his bombastic rhetoric, he is a great leader.
Some economists, such as Roubini, are more bombastic, arguing that the West is on the verge of collapse.
The speech was __________, full of complex words and abstract phrases.
With bombastic pronouncements on everything from banking to the boxer shorts industry, Buffet is one of the most recognizable people on Earth.
The novelist is infamous for his overblown, bombastic prose.
It was a stultifying procession of patriotic songs, bombastic speeches, and bald propaganda.
Wrinkling her nose, she declared his speech to be bombastic .
Give an example of 'bombastic':.
Hoping to forestall the impending suit, the members of the trade association offered a _________ apology for any misunderstandings.
The vocabulary word for today is "bombastic.
The speaker's writing is characterised by blatant hyperbole and bombastic language.
The astrophysicist was known as a humble, intellectual man, not a bombastic egomaniac.

# tyro


# dilettante

Many economists, it's true, are dilettantes when it comes to politics.
At first, you figured he was a dilettante .
The physicist was a dilettante in the arts.
Scoffers could argue that only a dilettante would support the arts at the expense of more "useful" endeavors that employ a greater number of people.
The rise of art investing and equity crowdfunding will open the market to all comers, from rich dilettantes to impecunious undergraduates.
Sheila took up oil painting as a dilettante, but then she had a show.
The typical college graduate has interests in a wide variety of fields, making them a ___________ .
The typical college graduate has interests in a wide variety of fields, making them a ___________ .
One who ______________ in a subject has a superficial knowledge of it, but does not keep current in the field.
Despite being a dilettante about art and literature, the man had an innate gift of recognizing talent.
One of the dilettantes in attendance suggested that art should transcend such concerns.
One of the dilettantes in attendance suggested that art should transcend such concerns.
Hence, I think her approach to the novel is that of a dilettante rather than a scholar.
Despite being interested in art for many years, I came to museums only as a dilettante.
Your daughter has become a dilettante in the art world.
What he called "aesthetics," I would call dilettante posturing.
One such person, a ____________ collector of bits of interesting but ultimately trivial information, becomes your mentor.
The __________ artist is one who pursue her art mostly for personal fulfillment rather than for fortune or glory.
The artist is often considered a dilettante, because he mixes multiple mediums.
What surprised me was how much the Council spurned him; he was dismissed as a dilettante.
In fact, you wonder if this dilettante has any idea about what he's doing.
The typical dilettante may dabble in photography or paint.
The company has a dilettante attitude towards its employees.
Some people resent being patronised and will not listen, but actual customers are generally more receptive to your pitches if you take the time to talk to them as equals rather than as a dilettante.
The number of dilettantes has increased over the past several years.
The amateurish performance suggested that these dilettantes had more money than talent.
"But, Mother, I want to be a dilettante!".
The politicians in the capital are dilettantes compared to the men running things here.
There was an atmosphere of congeniality and ________, very unlike the oppressive, mind-numbing drudgery of the army.
Recent policies have failed to ameliorate the housing crisis, but the dilettante handling of a complex problem is no excuse for not trying.

# rococo

Such attitudes were characteristic of the ____ eighteenth century.
The furnishings were large and heavy, built in the ornate style of the late 18th century called rococo .
"The kind of people who show up to these things are ___________.
The palace's ornamental excesses reflect the ____ of its creator, Ferdinand.
These ornate ceiling decorations were a feature of the _____ architecture of the period.
In a rococo twist, the very next day after the parade was a holiday celebrating the sponsoring union.
The room was a rococo explosion of frills and curlicues, elaborately woven into an oversized chair with only the barest minimum of padding.
The palace is a rococo rendition of itself.
The audience sat in a style popular in the eighteenth century, called _______.
The decadent and excessive rococo style is exemplified in this palace in France.
Some critics see the productivity problem as __________.
Most art and literature of the time, like the Palace of Versailles, is ____.
Most artwork from this period is in the rococo style.
Even the most sophisticated patrons of the arts soon tire of the ironic detachment that characterizes the rococo style.
The art has always interested me because it seems to epitomize the characteristics of the rococo style, starting with the fluid lines and playful use of perspective in the furniture and dress designs.
In the 18th century, philosophers turned from the classical ideal of "virtue" to _______ and mystery.
There was something slightly excessive about this rococo mansion.
The new trading floor is decorated in a _______ style, with more curlicues than you'd find in a eighteenth-century brothel.
The excessive ornamentation of the period is known as "rococo,".
The king's ornate bedroom is a rococo marble masterpiece.
The skyscraper has a rococo cornice, modeled on early 18th-century French designs.
The baroque craze eventually gave way to the more restrained style of neoclassicism, which was itself disrupted by the gaudy, over-the-top richness of _________.
The transition from baroque to rococo is noted.
The building's ornate decorations were typical of the self-consciously over-the-top style called ____________.

